Class  X-X  2^ 
Book  !!?£'__ 


This  is  a  21st  Day  of  April  1724.  Attested  per 
John  Mumfoi  Superior  Court  in  March  1733.  Teste 
la.  Martin  Ch^^^^.^^^.^^^^^^,^^^_    ^^^^^_  ^^^^  ,,^^,6. 


^, 


JoS,   VtJlo,^ 


BxnlS, 


doMucE  ^OSofx 


a-t. 


I^W^MfiC.  ScWL^f 


<2~xi5ln^    V)G^«^Ka^S-.-.p 


£7LbMu»J  «MiM10i9~   1 


■fO 


*&i*^  dfo'VNi 


2timm.^»  JHuAaJord 


(5««tw£.f  ^eufoff 


dcMidictc^ 


fB«^i£ 


JfejKu-fea 


;<t~t\ 


JanrSsunff 


WUUo 


dGt**^ 


/ 


liooAa 


John  Mumford  Su^eTor"^   Truf  c"^*"'  "/  ^''"^^"°'"'"=""  P"^^t>^«e  which  was  delivered  to  me  by  Richard  Ward.  Recorder  &  was  taken  &  compared  this  2l8t  Day  of  April   1724.     Attested  per 
la.  Martin  Cler.  '  draught  of  Petaqumnscut  Purchase  as  on  file  in  the  Case:    Joseph  Torrey  vs  George  Mumford  tried  in  the  Superior  Court  in  March   1733.     Teste 


From  copy  in  Rhode  laland  Hitlorical Society.     Alias,  vol.  1 1,  p,  6. 


Rhode  Island 
Land  Evidences 


Volume  I 
1648-1696 

ABSTRACTS 


Providence: 
1921 


>5'ss^__3 


.1-; 


Preface 


In  Rhode  Island,  the  land  records  are  kept  by  the  various 
towns  and  not  by  the  counties,  as  in  Massachusetts.  This  has 
always  been  true  of  this  State,  even  when  for  a  time  the 
Colony  government  kept  a  record  of  land  transfers. 

There  are  now  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  four 
ancient  volumes  called  Rhode  Island  Land  Evidence.  They 
contain  a  great  variety  of  deeds,  •  very  Jew  of  Providence, 
many  from  Newport  and  many  from  the  various  parts  of 
South  County — some,  such  as  Roger  Williams'  deed  to 
Richard  Smith,  from  territory  where  there  was  no  town  gov- 
ernment at  all. 

The  deeds  are  not  arranged  chronologically  and  often  early 
deeds  are  recorded  with  later  instruments  relating  to  the  same 
piece  of  land,  apparently  to  strengthen  the  title.  Probate  and 
other  legal  records  are  also  contained  in  these  books. 

Two  other  volumes  of  early  colonial  records,  the  "Rhode 
Island  Colony  Record,  1646-1669,"  and  the  "Records  of  the 
Island  of  Rhode  Island,  1639-1646,"  also  contain  land  evi- 
dences. 

Although  a  few  of  these  deeds  have  been  printed  in  full  and 
in  abstract,  the  mass  of  this  material  has  been  available  for 
study  only  at  great  cost  of  time  and  effort.  Over  a  year  ago 
the  group  of  gentlemen,  whose  names  follow,  determined  to 
do  something  towards  bringing  these  deeds  before  students 
and  historians  in  a  reasonably  convenient  form : 

Edwin  A.  Burlingame  Norman  M.  Isham 

Frederick  D.  Carr  Charles  D.  Kimball 

William  C.  Dart  William  H.  Kimball 

William  C.  Greene  Howard  W.  Preston 

Henry  D.  Sharpe 


These  gentlemen  contributed  the  funds  for  abstracting  the 
records  in  the  first  vokime  of  Land  Evidence. 

This  work  was  done  by  Miss  Dorothy  Worthington. 

Miss  Worthington's  manuscript  was  turned  over  to  the 
Rhode  Island  Historical  Society  for  publication,  the  cost  of 
which  has  been  paid  for  out  of  the  "Special  fund"  contributed 
by: 

R.  Livingston  Beeckman         Frank  W.  Matteson 
H.  Martin  Brown  Jesse  H.  Metcalf 

Alfred  M.  Coats  Stephen  O.  Metcalf 

Samuel  P.  Colt  Paul  C.  Nicholson 

Charles  J.  Davol  Samuel  M.  Nicholson 

Michael  Dooley  Frederick  S.  Peck 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  L  Gammell   Mrs.  Frank  A.  Sayles 
William  Gammell  Henry  D.  Sharpe 

Mrs.  C.  Oliver  Iselin  George  L.  Shepley 

Charles  D.  Kimball  Robert  W.  Taft 

Webster  Knight  William  A.  Viall 

Henry  F.  Lippitt  John  Carter  Brown  Woods 

The  book  which  the  Society  now  publishes  is  the  oldest  of 
these  four  books  of  Land  Evidences.  It  consists  of  445  pages, 
each  about  7^  by  11^  inches,  the  writing  upon  which  is  en- 
closed, at  the  top  and  on  both  sides,  with  an  ink  border  line 
which  may  possibly  once  have  crossed  the  bottom  also.  The 
rectangle  of  manuscript  is  6  1/16  by  11^  inches.  The  paper 
has  a  water  mark,  an  urn  with  an  elaborate  finial  ending  at 
the  top  in  a  crescent. 

There  is  no  ancient  title  now  to  be  seen,  as  the  old  fly  leaves 
have  disappeared. 

The  old  binding  also  has  perished  and  the  book  has  been 
rebound,  with  the  following  title  on  the  back : 
RHODE-ISLAND 
LAND  RECORDS 


1648     TO      1696 

Norman  M.  Isham, 

For  the  Committee. 


Abstracts  from  Volume  I  of  the  Rhode 

Island  Land  Evidences  in  the 

State  Archives 


[i]      [Blank.] 

[2]     This  present  Deed  or  writinge  made  in  the  Power  and 
Twentith  yeare  of  the  Reigne  of  our  Soverraigne  Lord  Charles 

Wittnesseth,   That  wheras  there  is  a  percell  of   Land 

Contanninge  Forty  Acres  of  Land  bounded  on  the  West  End 
by  the  Highway  on  the  East  side  of  the  mill,  on  the  North 
Side  by  Joshua  Coggeshalls  Land  on  the  South  side  by  the 
Land  of  Mr  William  Jefferey,  and  on  the  East  End  by  the 
highway  to  the  Comon  as  alsoe  another  percell  of  Land  Con- 
taininge  two  acres  more  or  less  lyinge  on  the  west  side  of  the 
said  mill  higway  bounded  on  the  North  and  West  by  the  land 
of  James  Rogers  and  on  the  south  by  Mr.  William  Jeffereys 
land  and  East  on  the  aforesaid  highway,  which  said  two 
percells  of  Land being  the  proper  Inheritance  and  pos- 
session of  James  Rogers  of  Newport  in  Rhode-Isl.  in  the 
province   of   providence  in   New-England.     The   said  James 

Rogers doth sell  the  said  two  percells  of  Land 

unto  Richard  Knight  of  the  same  Towne In  Wittnes 

whereof  the  Sayd  James  Rogers  hath  sett  to  his  hand  and 
scale  this  prsent  sixteenth  day  of  January.  Ann.  Dom.  1648. 
in  the  presence  off  us  The  marke 

I  R 
William  Dyre  Gen.  Recordr  James  Rogers 

I  doe  promise  and  ingadge  my  selfe  to  make  the  fence  that 
hath  been  in  Controversy  betwixt  Richard   Knight  and  my 
selfe  betwixt  this  and  March  next  and  to  maintaine  the  same 
for  ever. 
Witnes  my  hand  hereunto  the  Sixth  of  June  1650 

Wittnesses 

Peter  Talmann  William  Jefferey 

Nathanell  Britten 


Newport   the   8th   day   of    February    1648 1    Richard 

Knight  of  Newport  doe inverce  and  ingage  to  my  wife 

Sarah  Knight  that  I  will  not  sell any  of  that  Tract  of 

Land  latly  bought  of  James  Rogers  and  Robert  Griffin  but 

doe Intaile    it    upon    her    and    my    heires    forever,    but 

Especialy  to  her  and  my  Eldist  sonn  if  any  and  in  case  wee 
have  no  sonn  to  my  Eldist  daughter  to  be  my  and  her  proper 
heire  after  my  death  and  if  a  sonn  he  shall  have  it  at  The  age 
of  one  and  Twenty  yeares  if  I  have  left  my  beinge  in  this  life, 
and  if  noe  sonn  then  the  Eldist  daughter  shall  have  it  at 
Sixteene  yeares  of  age  provided  alwaies  that  the  thirds  of  the 
Land  and  the  best  and  convenientest  roome  in  the  house  is  to 
be  my  wifes,  duringe  her  life,  and  then  to  returne  to  the  heire 

But  if  there  be  more  then  one  Sonn  the  daughters  are 

noe  heires  soe  long  as  any  of  the  male  be  liveinge,  but  if  noe 
sonn  or  sonns  or  if  the  sonn  or  sonns  die  without  Ishue,  then 
the  Eldist  daughter  then  livinge  shall  be  the  Right  heire,  But 
this  is  more  Largely  declared  that  if  the  Eldist  sonn  dye 
without  Ishue  the  next  shall  enjoy  it.  But  if  the  first  have 
children  whether  sonns  or  daughters  and  alsoe  the  rest  that 
are  herein  appointed  to  be  heires.  And  this  have  I  done  the 
day  and  yeare  above  written,  to  avoyd  strife  because  my  sonn 
in  ole  England  shall  have  nothing  to  doe  herein  nor  have  any 
Right  to  any  Land  of  mine  in  New-England.  In  testimony 
hereof  I  put  to  my  hand  this  day  and  yeare  aforesaid. 
Signed  in  the 

pressence  off  Richard  Knight 

John  Downeing 

his  X  marke 
Robert  Spink 
X  his  marke 

[3] I  Cogamaquoant  one  of  the  chief e  Indian  Sachims 

or  prince  of  the  Narragansetts  in  the  Collony  of  Rhod-Island 

have    for Tenn  pownds   in   peage   Eight   the  peny 

in  hand  by  me  the  aforesaid  Cogamaquoant  Received  from 
Richard  Knight  &  Henry  Halls  both  of  the  Towne  of  New- 
port  wherwith   I    the   sayd   Cogamaquoant   doe dis- 


charg  the  said  Richard  Knight  and  Henry  Halls  of  all  debts 

I doe sell unto   the   said   Richard   Knight 

&  Henry  Halls  their  heires a  certain  percell   of   Land 

Scittuate  and  lyinge  in  the  aforesaid  Narragansetts  Cuntry 
neere  or  adjoininge  unto  the  Land  Formerly  Sould  by  me  unto 
Mr.  John  Porter  and  Mr  Samll  Wilbore  &c  at  pettacomscutt 
and  is  by  Esteemation  two  Miles  Square  be  it  more  or  less 
beinge  butted  and  bounded  as  Followeth  Vizt.  on  the  East 
side  from  a  place  called  in  Indian  Qumatumpick,  southward 
to  a  place  called  chippachuat  and  soe  westerly  to  a  place  called 
Quowachauck  and  from  thence  northward  to  a  place  called 
Winatompick  and  soe  to  extand  from  thence  upon  a  straight 

line  unto  the  first  boundery, to  be  Houlden  of  our  Royall 

Soverraigne  Lord  Charles  the  Second not  in  Capett  nor 

by  Knights  service  but  in  comon  Soccage  after  the  manner  of 

East  Greenwich  in  the  County  of  Kent Further   I  the 

said    Cogamoquant    doe bind    myself e in    the    sum 

or  Bond  of  Five  hundred  pounds  Starl  of  good  and  lawfull 
mony  of  England  or  to  the  vallew  therof  that  the  Land  men- 
tioned in  this  deed  is  a  good  Reall  and  firme  Estate  unto  the 

said  Richard  Knight  and  Henry  Halls and  that  the  said 

land  is  cleere  and  free  from  all  intailments  deeds  of  sale  leases 
mortgages  and  all  other  aUenations  of  what  nature  or  kinds 

whatsoever and   to   cleere   and    remove   or  cause   to   be 

removed  at  or  before  the  first  of  march  next  after  the  date 
hereof  Every  Indian  or  Indians  Inhabiting  there  on  and  not 
to  suflfer  for  the  future  any  Indian  to  dwell  or  plant  upon  the 

aforesaid   Tract this   ninteenth   day  of  January  and   in; 

the  yeare  of  our  Lord  god  one  Thousand  Six  hundred  Sixty 

and  fower 

in  presence  of  The  marke  of 

John  Archer  X 

The  marke  of  Cogamagooant 

X  The  marke  of  Wotomer 

Alse  Archer  X      an  Indian 

Richard  Bulgar  Cobsounk     his  marke 

X      an  Indian 


8 

'[4]  Noumto.  Univrsi,  prputs  me  Henrycum  Button  de 
Buckland  in  Com.  Southt  Armr  teneriet  fermiter  obligary 
Nicholas  Easton  de  lymington  in  Com.  prd  Tanner  in  ducentis 
libris  bonet  Legati  monete  angt  Soluend  eidem  Nicholas 
Easton  aut  suo  certo  aturnato  Executor  vealassigna  suis  ad 
qua  quidem  solucoriem  bene  et  fidelit  f  aciend  obligo  and  hered 
Executor  et  administrator  meos  firmiter  prputs  Sigillom  eo 
sigillat  dat  visisimo  sexto  die  Junu  Anno  Regnie  dm  nor 
Jacobi  dei  grat  angli  fraunce  et  hiberni  Regis  fidei  defensor 
&  decimo  quarto  et  stotie  Quadragesimo  Nono  1616.  [Know 
all  men  by  these  presents  that  Nicholas  Easton  of  Lymming- 
ton  in  the  County  of  Hants,  Tanner,  holds  and  formally 
binds  me,  Henry  Button  of  Buckland  in  the  County  afore- 
said. Gentleman,  to  the  sum  of  two  hundred  pounds  of  good 
and  lawful  English  money  to  be  paid  to  the  said  Nicholas 
Easton  or  his  authorized  attorney,  executor  or  assignee,  to 
the  good  and  faithful  execution  of  the  payment  I  bind  myself, 
my  heires.  Executor  and  Administrator,  formally  in  witness 
whereof  I  affix  my  seal,  given  the  26th  of  June  in  the  four- 
teenth year  of  the  reign  of  our  Lord  James  by  the  grace  of 
God,    King   of    England,    France   and    Ireland,    defender   of 

the  Faith, 1616.] 

The  Condicon  of  this  obligation  is  such  that  if  the  above 

bownded  Henry  Button soe  long  as  he  the  said  Henry 

Button  his  heires  or  assignes  shall  or  may  lawfully  in  joy 

the  prfitts  of  certaine  Copie  hold  lands  in  pennington  in  the 

County  of  South  t.  specified and  agreed  upon  betweene 

the  said  William  Dolinge  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  Nicholas 
Easton  of  the  one  part  and  the  said  Henry  Button  of  the 

other  part  dated  the  day  of  the  Date  hereof shall  well 

and  truly  pay  yearly  the  sum  of  Eleven  pownds  of  Lawfull 

English  mony 

in  the  pressence  of 

Henry  Button 
Edward  Button  Edward  Keiylway 

Thomas  Hurst  Edmund  Barnes. 

[5] I  John  Porter  of  pettacomscutt  in  the  CoUony  of 


Rhod-Island for the  sum  of  Four  hundred  pownds 

starlino- paid  by  Richard  Smith  of  Newport  in  the  Col- 

lony     aforesaid     merchant have sold unto    the 

said  Richd  Smith a  certaine  percell  of  Land  lyinge  and 

beinge  within  the  bounds  of  the  Towne  of  Portsmouth,  on 
Rhod-Island  in  the  Collony  aforesaid  Containinge  by  Estee- 
mation  two  hundred  and  forty  Acres  more  or  less  Bounded 
on  the  north  by  Land  now  or  late  in  the  posession  of  Mr 
William  Baulston  or  his  assignes,  on  the  west  by  the  sea,  on 
the  south  by  Land  now  or  late  in  the  posession  of  Thomas 
Hazard  or  his  assignes,  and  on  the  east  by  the  Comon,  together 

with  all  and  Singular  the  houses In  wittnes  whereof  I 

the  said  John  Porter  have  hereunto  sett  my  hand  and  Scale 
(as  alsoe  Horrud  porter  the  wife  of  me  the  said  John  porter 

the    six    and    Twentith    day    of    September Anno. 

Dm.  1671 

John  porter 
in  the  pressents  of 
(the  word  Baulston 
being  Interlyned) 
Francis  Brinley 

John  Almy  , 

Richard  Baily 

I  Hurrud  porter  doe  consent  to  the  bovesd  Deed  and  doe 
Release  all  my  Right  intrest  and  Title  in  the  abovesaid  prem- 
ises Notwithstandinge  my  jointure  or  Dower  made  me  by  my 
now  Husband  before  Marriage  with  me.  Wittnes  my  hand 
and  scale  this  thirty  day  of  Sept  1671 

Wittnes The  mark  of 

Samuell  Wilson  Horad  Porter 

Georg  X  Hicks  X 

his  marke 
Georg  X  Gardner 

his  marke 
[6]     This  Indenture  made  the  Eighteenth  day  of  October  in 
the  ninth  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  our  Soverraigne  Lord  Charles 

Betweene  Henry  Tew  of  Maidforde  in  the  County  of 

North'ton  yeoman  of  the  one  part  and  William  Clarke  of 
priors  Hardwicke  in  the  County  of  Warr.  yeoman  of  the  other 


10 

part  Witnesseth  that  for  and  in  Consideration  of  a  marriage 
by  the  grace  of  god  shortly  to  be  had  and  Sollemnized  Be- 
tweene  Richard  Tew  Sonn  and  heire  apparant  of  the  said 
Henry  and  Mary  Clarke  one  of  the  Daughters  of  the  said 
William  Clarke  and  for  the  sum  off  Twenty  pounds  of  Law- 
full  mony  of  England  by  bond  scured  to  be  payd  by  the  said 
William  Clarke  unto  the  said  Henry  Tew  upon  the  last  day 
of  May  next  Ensuinge  the  date  off  these  pressents.  And  for 
the  sum  of  one  hundred  and  Twenty  pounds  of  Lawful  mony 
England  by  Bond  secured  to  be  paid  by  him  the  said  William 
Clarke  to  him  the  said  Richard  Tewe  upon  the  Nine  and  twen- 
tith  day  of  Septembr  which  shall  be  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord 

god  one  Thousand  Six  hundred  and  Forty It  is  hereby 

Mutualy  covinnated that  he  the  said  Henry  Tew 

shall be  seised   of that   Messuage,  Tenement,  Close 

and   one  yardland;   and   halfe  yardland Scituate in 

the  Towne  parish  and  Feilds  of  Maidforde  aforsaid,  And  now 
in  the  possession  Tenure  or  occupacon  of  the  said  Henry  Tew, 

and  of  and  in  all  that  Cottage now  in  the  Tenure  or 

occupacon  of  Nicholas  Carey, and  of  and  in  all  that  other 

Cottage now  in  the  Tenure  or  occupacon  of   Nathaniel 

Shen To  the  only  proper  use  of  the  said  Henry  Tew  for 

and  during  the  tearme  of  his  Naturall  life,  And  Emediatly 
from  and  after  his  decease  to  the  only  proper  use  and  behoofe 

of  the  said  Richard  Tewe And  for  touchinge  and  Con- 

cerninge  the  said   Messuage  yardland  and  half To  the 

only  use  and  behoofe  of  the  said  Henry  Tewe  for  and  during 

the  Terme  of  seven  yeares (if  the  said  Henry  shall  soe 

long  live).  And  Emediatly  from  and  after  the  end  or  other 
detirminacon  of  the  said  Tearme  of  seven  yeares  to  the  only 

use  and  behoofe  of  the  said  Richard  Tew [7]     In  Witnes 

whereof  the  parties  to  theis  pressents  have  to  theis  pressent 

Indentures  interchangeably  sett  their  hands  and  scales 

Sealed  and  Delivered  Henry  Tewe 

in  the  presence  of 

William  Leeke 

Samuell  Leeke 

John  Maior 


II 

Whereas  there  is  found  wanting  in  a  certain  lott  laid 

out  by  mr  Noise  and  some  others  to  John  Rathbone  and 
Edward  Vose  which  should  have  been  two  hundred  and  Tenn 
Acres,  And  falling  short  six  score  and  tenn  acres.  Therefore 
Know  yea  that  I  John  Williams  Aturney  to  John  Greene 
Aturn.  to  the  Guardians  of  the  estate  of  the  late  John  Alcock 
of  Roxbury  phissission  deceased  havinge  by  their  order  in 
Aprile  last  past  ordered  me  to  deliver  the  said  Rathbone  and 
his  partner  what  land  shall  be  found  wantinge  to  them  in  some 
Convenient  place  in  the  Comon  land  at  Block  Island ;  There- 
fore Know  yea  that  I  have  layd  out  to  the  said  Rathbone  sixty 
Acres  of  land  on  the  East  side  of  Mill  River  butting  and 
boundinge  with  the  land  of  Samuell  Deringe  south  one  hun- 
dred &  Eighty  Eight  Rod  long  Buttinge  to  the  sea  on  the  East 
A  hundred  and  fower  Rod  to  the  land  of  Samuell  Hagbourne 
north  a  hundred  and  Twenty  fower  Rod  soe  to  goe  downe  to 
the  Mill  Brooke  Thirty  five  Rod  in  Bredth,  till  it  comes  to  the 
Land  of  Samuell  Hagbourne  and  to  have  a  highway  through 
James  Sands  yard  over  the  mill  Brooke  soe  to  run  as  a  drift 
way  through  the  land  of  the  said  Rathbone  two  Rods  wide 
along  by  mr  Hagbournes  Reaves  and  Dodges  land  to  the  now 
Harbour  on  the  East  Side  of  Block  Island.  In  wittnes 
whereof  I  have  hereunto  sett  my  hand  this  Eleventh  day  of 
October  1671.  John  Williams 

Wittness 

Robert  Guthrey 

Trustram  Dodge 

Wee  whose  names  are  under  written  doe  aprove  and 

allow  of  John  Williams  act  in  delivering  John  Rathbone  that 
land  that  Joines  to  Samuell  Derings  great  lott  (formerly  sold 
to  Samuell  Hagbourne)  for  his  Sixty  or  Sixty  five  Acres  of 
land  wantinge  in  his  great  lott  in  the  South  end  of  Block 
Island.     Wittnes  our  hands  Octor  18;  1671. 

Samll  Dering  X  his  marke 
Henry  Neale  X  his  marke 
Phillip  Wharton 

That  I  Samuel  Derin  doe  Resigne  up  all  my  Right 

Title  and  intrest  to  the  percell  of  Land  Given  to  John  Rath- 


12 

bone  (for  Sixty  five  acres  of  Land  missinge  in  his  great  lott) 
to  the  Heires  of  John  Alcock  and  the  Company  belonginge  to 
Block  Island  as  wittnes  my  hand  this  i8th  day  of  October  1671. 
Wittness  his  marke 

John  Williams  Samll  Derin 

Henry  Neale 
his  marke 

[8] I  Mary  Bering  vid  the  late  wife  of  Samll  Bering 

Sometimes  of  Braintree  in  the  County  of  Suffolke  yeoman, 
Beceased,  for  and  in  consideration  of  the  considerable  sum  of 
one  hundred  Forty  and  five  pounds  of  currant  silver  mony  of 

New   England received   of    Mr.   James   Sands   of    Block 

Island doe sell to  James  Sands,  his  Heires 

all  that  Tract  of  Land  that  was  the  Land  of  my  late  deare 
Husband,  Samuell  Beringe  aforesaid  at  that  time  when  he 
made  a  Lease  of  the  same  Lands  Anno.  1669  Aprill  the  First 

Scituate  lyinge  and  beinge  in  Block  Island  in  the  Collony 

of    Rhod-Island Alwaies   saveinge  and   Reserveinge   the 

said  Lease to  the  Grantees  or  Leasee untill  the  full 

time  and  tearme  therein  mentioned It  being  formerly  by 

my  said  deare  Husband  lawfully  purchased  of  mr  John  Alcock 

late  of  Roxbury  phisician  deceased the  Lease  aforesaid 

to  Trustram  Bodge  Senr,  Trustram  Bodge  Junr  and  William 

Bodge And  further  I  the  said  Mary  Beringe  Boe  further 

sell  to  the  said  mr  James  Sands  all  that  part  of  the  stock  of 
Cattell  and  other  Utencills  of  Husbandry  mentioned  in  the 

Lease  of  the  first  of  Aprill  1669  with  all  the  increase In 

wittnes  wherof  I  the  said  Mary  Beringe  have  hereunto  put  my 
hand  and  affixed  my  scale  11  :  9  mo  :  Anno  1671. 
in  presence  of  us  Mary  Bering 

Cornelius  Fisher  her  marke  X  scale 

Samuell  Hunting 

[9] This  Beed bearing  date  the  two  and  Twentieth 

Bay  of  Sept 1671  betweene  William  Brenton  and  Bene- 
dict Arnold  of  Newport  on  Rhod-Island  Merchts  John  Hull  of 

Boston Mercht,  John  Porter  Samll  Wilbur  Samuell  Wel- 

son  and  Thomas   Mumford  of  the   Collony  of  Rhod-Island 


13 

of  the  one  part  and  Robert  Hassard  of  Portsmouth  in 

the  Collony  of  Rhod-Island  &c  Shipp-wright  on  the  other  part 

That  wee  the  said  WilHam  Brenton in  consideration 

of  the  sum  of  Five  and  Twenty  pounds  starll paid  by  the 

said  Robert  Hassard have  sould to  the  said  Robert 

Hassard two  peecis  of  percells  of  Land  Containinge  by 

Esteemation  five  hundred  &  sixty  Acres in  the  Narragan- 

sitt  Cuntry  or  Kings  province one  percell beinge  five 

hundred  Acres  more  or  less  is  bounded  on  the  north  by  a  high- 
way on  the  East  by  Saugawatuckett  River  on  the  south  partly 
by  land  belonging  to  Edmund  Shearman  &  Samson  Shearman 
and  partly  by  a  high-way  on  the  west  by  Land  layd  out  to  the 
purchassers,  the  other  percell  of  the  said  Five  hundred  &  sixty 
Acres  beinge  Sixty  Acres  more  or  less  is  adjoyninge  to  Two 
Hundred  and  fifty  Acres  which  the  said  Robert  Hassard  pur- 
chased of  John  Sanford Only  Excepted  that  is  at  any 

time  hereafter  any  Minneralls  shall  be  Discovered  in  the  said 
percells  of  Land  or  Either  of  them  the  said  Minneralls  shall  be 
devided  into  Eight  equall  shares  or  parts  seven  wherof  shall 
be  and  remaine  to  the  use  of  us  the  said  William  Brenton, 
Benedict  Arnold,  John  Hull,  John  Porter,  Samuell  Wilbur, 
Samuell  Welson,  &  Thomas  Mumford,  and  the  other  Eight 
part  to  the  use  of  the  said  Robt.  Hassard wee  have  here- 
unto sett  our  hands  &  seals 

in  the  presence 
off 
John  Albro  William  Brenton 

John  Winchcombe  Benedict  Arnold 

John  Hull 
John  Porter 
Samuell  Wilbur 
Samuell  Welson 
Thomas  Mumford 

Robert  Hassard  to  Georg    Brownell.    Robert  Hassard 

of     Portsmouth Nine    pounds Georg    Brownell    of 

Portsmouth one-third  part  of  three  hundred  and   Tenn 

Acres   of    Land    lyinge in   the   Narragansett    Cuntry   in 


14 

that  Tract  belong-inge  unto  the  purchassers  of  Pattacomscutt 
and  is  by  them  already  Layd  out  two  hundred  and  fifty  Acres 
of  the  said  Three  hundred  and  tenn  beinge  by  me  purchased 
of  John  San  ford  the  other  sixty  beinge  granted  and  Layd  out 

thereto   by  the purchassors Twenty-fourth    Day   of 

Novembr 1671 

Wit.  Robert  Hassard. 

John  Sanford. 

Gidion  X  Freeborne 
his  mark 

Joseph  Samson 

Robart     Hassard ye     first    day    of    June     1698 

Acknowledged  ye  Above  written 

Joseph  Shefi^ld  Ast : 
[10]     Robert  Hassard  to  Gidion  Freeborne. 

Robert      Hassard      of Portsmouth Eighteene- 

pounds Gidion     Freeborne    of Portsmouth two 

third  parts  of  Three  hundred  and  Tenn  Acres the  other 

third I  haveing  sold  unto  George  Brownell, Lyinge 

in that    Tract    belonginge    to    the    purchassors    of 

Pettacomscutt Two   hundred   and  fifty  Acres being 

by  me  purchassed  of  John  Sanford Twenty  fourth  Day 

of  Novembr 1671 

Wit.     John  Sanford  Robert  Hassard 

Joseph  Samson 
George  X  Brownell 
his  marke 
[11]     Samuell  Hubbard — Land  Recorded. 

Samuell    Hubbard    of Newport posession     of 

Land  containge  Twenty  fower  Acres within New- 
port is  bounded  North,  with  the  Land  of  Nicholas  Wiles  and 
a  lane  throug  his  land  to  the  Comon  East  by  the  River  Called 
Stony  River,  South  by  the  land  of  mr.  Walter  Cunnigrave 
and  part  by  the  Land  of  mr.   Walter  Clarke  West  by  the 

High  way  twelve  Rods Twenty  fower  Rods  by  the  land 

of   Andrew    Langworth   with   All dwelinge   or   mansion 


15 

housis  Barnes  and  outhousis  ardins  orchyards 15th  Day 

of  Aprill 1672. 

John  Sanford  G.  Recorder. 

Trustram  Dodge  to  Peter  Georg. 

Trustram      Dodge seventy     pt)unds paid      by 

Peter  Georg  Samuell  Dearing  and  John  WilHams  Inhabitants 

of  Block  Island do grant all  my  Land upon 

Block    Island    lately    bought    of    Thomas    Terry Thirty 

Acres with  all housing  chattells  movable  goods 

upon  my  lands sixteenth  day  of  Aprill 1666 

Wit.  Trustram  Dodge 

Willi  Reves 

X 
his  marke 

William  Nightingall 
[12]     Peter  Georg  to  John  Williams. 

Peter  Georg  of   Block   Island   do  assigne all  the   Right 

unto  John  Williams  of  Block  Island 15th  day  of 

November  1668: 

Peter  X  George, 
his  marke. 

Nicholas  Easton  Land  Records. 

Nicholas  Easton  was  granted :  300  Acres  for  his  f arme 

and  20  cowes  grass  with  25  ackers  of  Cow-pasture  and  fower 

ackers  of  a  home  Lott — Upon  the  5th  day  of  February 

1644  the  old  freemen  of  Newport  were  called  together  for 

the  Dispotion of  the  Towne  Land  undispossed  of 

finding   not   above    sixty   acres    left: agree that    he 

should  have  that  percell at  two  shillings  per  acre 

his  farm  to  begin  on  the  East  side  of  the  mill  pond  in  the 
midst  of  the  Valley  and  soe  on  in  a  straight  line  to  Extend 
Eastward  to  the  marked  trees  at  Stony  River  and  by  that 
Rivers  side  to  the  Falls  and  from  thence  by  the  virge  of  the 
hill  to  the  sea  to  the  Edge  of  the  Rocks  and  soe  bounded  by 
the  sea  South  and  West  to  the  midle  of  the  hill  between  the 
Issueing  out  of  the  pond  and  the  Carte  way,  and  from  thence 
about  by  the  pond  side  to  the  afore-said  valley:  lickwise  on 


i6 

the  southwest  side  of  the  pond  Bounded  by  the  high-way  on 
the  back-side  to  over  against  the  house  and  soe  by  marked 
trees  unto  a  small  tree  over  against  mr  Brentons  line  and 
by  that  line  through  the  swamp  unto  the  verdg  of  the  pond, 
a  part  of  mr.  Brentons  marsh  interveaning,  as  alsoe  two  Acres 
of  pasture  and  one  Cowes  hay  lying  neere  Aquednock  point 
with  his  home  lott  and  six  acres  of  upland  and  six  acres  of 
Fenceinge    Copes    lyinge   betweene    mr    Bracys    Farme    and 

Henry   Bulls    meadowes which Land   is   layd    forth 

for  his  proportion  of  369  Acres  alowed  him  by  order  with 
20  also  by  order  allowed  for  the  mill  in  proportion  of  acres 

The  neck  at  Sachueast  140  layd  out  to  mr  Easton  50 

to  Robeson  40.  to  Edward  Andrewes  25.  sold  to  mr  Easton 
amounting  to  the  number  of  389  acres 

Joseph  Terry  Towne  Gierke 
1662  December:  5 
[13]  Mr.  Easton  is  to  fence  his  Farme  in  wholy  except  mr 
Brentons  Fence  betwene  them  and  the  line  betweene  the 
high-way  that  goeth  downe  to  the  pond  and  the  beach  border- 
ing ther  upon  and  the  medow  ther  in  also  Robert  Feild  and 
John  Anthony  is  to  fence  off  their  ground  and  the  Comon  is 
to  Fence  upon  them 

Joseph  Terry 
1662  Decemr:  5 
To  James  Barker  40  Acres  lyinge  on  the  north  side  of  a 
percell  of  Land  which  was  measured  to  mr  Easton  of  all  150 
acres  with  the  Rocks  and  was  desined  by  him  for  his  100 
Acres  alowed  him  for  his  part  of  the  Mill  Land  wherof  mr 
Easton  allowed  him  40  acres  and  the  allowance  for  Rocks 
the  rest  is  by  consent  layd  down  for  Comon  and  both  this 
and  all  James  Barkers  is  bounded  on  the  East  end  on  the 
Brooke  on  which  mr  Hutchinsons  &c.  but  James  Barker  is 

bounded  on  the  north  by  Nicholas  Cotterill 

1662  Decembr  6 

Joseph  Terry  Towne  Clerke 
John  Tripp  to  Joseph  Tripp. 
John   Tripp   of Portsmouth Senr.    Shaft   Car- 


17 

penter granted unto  Joseph  Tripp  of  Dartmoth  in 

the  Collony  of  plymoth one  quarter  share  of  Land  lying 

within Dartmoth  that  is one  f ovverth  part  of 

one  whole  or  intyer portion  of   Land  belonging  to  one 

purchassor  it  being  the  one  halfe  of  that  Land  which 

John  Tripp  bought  of  John  Alden  of Duxbury to 

be  holder  as  of  his  Majhie  his  manner  of    East    Greenwich 

third  day  of  May 1671 

Wit.  John  Tripp. 

William  Hall  Junr. 

William  Hall  Senr. 
[14]     Tomas  Kent — ratification  of  holdings. 

Thomas    Kent of Portsmouth Eigh    acres 

granted   by  the   Towne   of    Portsmouth   Unto   Stephen 

Wilcooks  and  lyinge in Towneshipp  of  Portsmouth 

Established 22th  of   May   1662 promisses  are 

Ratified The  14th  day  of  June  1672 

John  Sanford  G.  Recorder 

Assigned  to  Witt  Hall — Lawrence  Gonsalles. 
Lawrence  Gonsalles  of  pequemins  in  ye  County  of  Albe- 
marle in  ye  province  of  Carolina  Taylor  by  the  Authorety 
and  power  of  a  Letter  of  Aturny  from  my  father  in  law  Tho. 
Kent  of  ye  province  afore,  sd.  doe  by  these  pressents  assigne 
this  in  written  deed  unto  Witt.  Hall  of  portsmo.  on  Rhod 

Island  in  ye  Collony  of  Rhod:Island I  say  Assigned  to 

the  sd.  Witt  Hall  junr 17th  of  June  1672 

Wit,  Laurance  Gonsalles. 

Hugh  Persons        Icobed  Potter 

Peleg  Tripp  Henry  Matteesson. 

Thomas  Kents  Letter  of  Aturney  to  Laurance  Gonsalles. 
Thomas  Kent  of  Pequemins  in  the  County  of  Albe- 
marle in  the  Province  of  Carolina  plantr doe  Constitute 

Laurance  Gonsalles my  true  and  Lawfull  Aturney 

to  manage  all  such  affairs  wherein  my  selfe,  am 

Consemed  at  Rhod-Island Twenty  Eight  of  March  One 

Thowsand  Six  hundred  seventy-two. 


i8 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Kent 

Samuell  Pricklove  his  marke 

Robert  X  Paine, 
his  marke. 

William  X  Charles 
his  marke 
[15]     Letter  of  Aturney  to  Samuell  Nicholson. 

Joseph    Nicholson    Thomas    Nicholson    and    Elizabeth 

Nicholson  (now  wife  of  Nicholas  Andrewes)  the  Children 
of  Edmund  Nicholson,  of  Marble-head,  in  the  County  of 
Essix,  in  the  Colleny  of  Massachusetts,  Fisherman  deceased 

have    Assigned our brother    Samuell    Nicholson    of 

Marblehead Fisherman  to  be our Lawfull  Atur- 
ney  and  receive  of  mr  Peleg  Sanford  of  Newport 

as   Executor   of   the   Last   Will   and   Testament   off   Francis 

Simpson  of   Newport seventeenth  day  of  June one 

Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  &  two. 
Wit. 

Hilliard  Veren  Senr. 

William  Dounten. 

The  marke  off — 
Joseph  X  Nicholson. 
:  Thomas  Nicholson 

The  marke  off — 
Elisabeth  X  Andrewes 

Peter  Eastons  Receipt. 
Newport — ^27th  of  July  1672 

Received  off — Edmund  Calverly  by  the  appointment  of  Mary 
which  was  the  wife  of  Richard  Pray  of  Providence  for  her 

centance  at  the  Court  of  Tryalls  held  at   Newport the 

sixt  of  May- 1672  Pray  received  tenn  pounds  in  Boston  silver 
which  was  to  acquitt  her  of  beinge  twice  whipt  for  her  fact 
done.    Received  by  me 
Wit.  Peter  Easton.  Treasurer 

John  Greene  Asistant 

Edmund  Calverley 


19 

[i6]     John  Tripp  to  Peleg  Tripp. 

Jolin  Tripp of  Portsmouth  senr  in.  . .  .Rhod-Island 

grant unto  my  second  sonn  Peleg  Tripp  a  fourth 

part  of  a  share  Lott lyinge at  the  place called 

Acassett  within  the  Towne  of  Dartmoth,  in  the  jurisdiction 

of   new    Plymouth together   with   all uplands,    med- 

owes,    woods,    timbers,    watters to    be    houlden    of    his 

Majestic  of  England as  of  his  manner  of  East  Green- 
wich, in  the  County  of  Kent not  in  Capitt  nor  Knights 

service  by  the  rents thereby  due  and  of  Right  accustomed 

only  it  is  provided  that Peleg  Tripp  shall  hereafter 

sell  the part of  Land  it  is  to  be   sould  unto 

me or  my  heires Eight  day  of  Septr 1665 

Wit.     John  Sanford  John  Tripp 

Samuell  Sanford. 
[17]     Wm.  and  Anne  Coddington  to  Nicholas  Easton. 
Rhod-Island. 

William  Coddington  and  Anne  Coddington  his  wife  doe 

sell    unto    Nicholas    Easton a    percell    of    Land     lyinge 

in    the Towne    of    Newport Contanninge    by 

esteemation  Thirty  two  Acres which  is  boundinge 

North  by  the  way  to  the  great  Swamp,  South  by  the  Land  of 
William  Dyre,  West  on  the  Sea,  and  East  by  the  Land  of 

Nicholas  Easton  which  he  purchassed  of  John  Clarke 

and  others 17th  day  of  the  4th  moth  1672. 

Wit.  Wm  Coddington  senr. 

Danll.  Gould  Anne  Coddington 

Ednd  Thurston  X 

Wm.  Brinley 
[18]     Thomas  Loveday  Letter  of  Aturney  to  Wm.  Barcker 

Thomas  Loveday  Cittison  and  Goold  smith  of  London 

Have  made  William  Barcker  of  the  Citty  of  New  Yorke 

upon  Long  Island  beyond  the  Sea  my.  ..  .Aturney and 

in  my  name  to receive from   Nathanill  Johnson  of 

Newport  in  Rhod-Island  in  the  parts  beyond  the  seas  Mer- 
chant all  such  sums of  mony  as  are  due five   and 

Twentieth  day  of  July  Anno-Dom.  1671 


20 

"Wit.  Thomas  Loveday 

Peter  Floger 

Robt.  Merrifeild 

Quod  attestor 

Rich  Stonebill     Nots.  Pub.cus 

Richard  Cornell  to  Gersham  Wodell 

Richard  Cornell  of   Comebery  upon  Long-Island  have 

received    of    Gersham    Wodell    in    Portsmouth    upon    Rhod- 

Island  satisfaction from  all  bills 2ith  of  June  1672 

Wit.     Thomas  Cornell  Richard  Cornell 

Lawrance  Gonsalles 
[19]     William  Minnion  to  Edward  Inman  and  John  Mowry, 

William  Minnion  of  Punkkipage Collony  of  the 

Massachusetts      Bay have      Freely      given Edward 

Inman  and  John  Mawry  of   Providence two  Thousand 

acres bounds, lyinge   from   loquiset   northward,   the 

first  bound  is  a  chestnutt  on  the  south  marked  on  fower  sides 
at  the  first  indian  Feild  on  Wessukkuttomsuk  hill  runninge  a 
mile  due  North  and  then  upon  a  line  to  Ummohtukkonit 
takeinge  in  all  the  Medow  and  soe  to  run  to  Nipsharuck,  and 
soe  to  the  Indians  ground,  and  soe  to  a  champ  of  pines  called 
the  Key,  and  soe  to  the  springe  called  Wessukkattomsuk,  to 
the  chestnut  tree  above  mentioned,  and  soe  to  the  Patuket 
river  Northward  and  on  the  end  of  the  mill  North  to  Patukit 

River Fourteen  day  of  May  1666 

the  marke  X  of  William  Minion 
the  marke  X  of  Joseph  William 
Mynions  Coson 
Wit. 

Daniell  Abbott 

John  Steere. 

William  Manannion  to  Edward  Inman. 

William  Manannion  Indian  livinge  at  Punkapoge  (alias 

paliene) Twenty    pounds paid    by    Edward    Inman 

late  of  Providence,  hath  given Five  hundred  acres 

bounded  at  Wewesapinset,  and  from  thence  upon  a  straight 
line  to  Umstococonnet,  and  from  umetocconnet  to  the  Midle 


21 

of  a  g^reat  seader  swamp  to  a  Butten  tree  and  from  thence 
runs  to  Potucket  river  almost  North  there  bounded  by  a 
walnutt  tree,  and  these  are  the  bounds  of  the  last  purchassed 

Lands  comonly  called Wansaakitt  hill, thirteenth  of 

May One  Thousand  six  hundred  and  sixty  &  nine 

Wit.  William  Manannion  X  Marke 

Samuell  Goston  Junr 

Jonathan  Blisse. 
[20]     King-  Philip  to  Edward  Inman. 

Wee  King  Phillip  Joseph  Manannion  Totoroms  widdow 

named  Kewapam  &  William  Manannions  Uncle  called  by  the 

name  of  Jeffery Release  unto Edward  Inman 

of  Providence thirteenth  day  of  May one  Thousand 

six  hundred  and  sixty  and  nine 

Wit.  King  Phillips  X  marke 

Samuell  Gorton  Junr 

Jonathan  Blisse. 
[21]     Edward  Inman  to  James  Blakmor. 

Edward  Inman  &  John  Moory ,  yeomen have 

for -a  Valuable  Consideration paid  by  James  Blak- 
mor and  John  Bukman  of  Rehoboth  in New-Plymouth, 

a  full  sixt  part of  Land  that  wee  bought  of  William 

Mininion Bounded  as  foUoweth,  the  first  bounds  beinge 

a  chessnutt  tree  marked  on  fower  sides  at  the  first  Indian 
Feild  to  the  South  on  Wesukuttomsuk  hill  runninge  a  mile 
due  north,  and  then  upon  a  line  unto  Unmotaktonct,  takeinge 
all  the  meddow  and  soe  to  run  Nipsachuit  and  to  the  Indian 
ground,  and  soe  to  a  clump  of  pines  called  the  Key  and  soe 
to  the  spring  at  Wessuktonsuk  and  soe  to  the  Wessuktonsuk 
to  the  chessnutt  tree  above  mentioned,  and  soe  to  Patuckett 
River, tenth  day  of  October one  thowsand  six  hun- 
dred seventy  and  two. 

Wit.  Edward  Inman 
William  Carpenter                                          John  Moory 
John  Johnson 
[22]     Edward  Inman  to  James  Blackmor  and  John  Bukman 
Edward  Inman yeomen paid  by  James  Black- 


22 

mor  and  John  Bukman  of  Rehoboth New-Plymoth 

sell  a  full  sixt  part purchased  of  William  Minninion  of 

Punkapoge  the  whole  tract  of  Landed  bounded at  Wewe- 

supinsit,  and  from  thence  upon  a  straight  line  Ametococomett 
and  from  Ametococomet  to  the  midle  of  a  ^eat  seader  swamp 
to  a  Butten  tree  and  from  thence  to  Patukett  River  almost 
North  three  hundred  by  a  walnutt  tree,  this  Land  comonly 

knowne  by  the  name  of  Wansuket  hill, tenth  of  October 

one  thousand  six  hundred  seventy  two 

Wit.  Edward  Inman 

William  Carpenter 

John  Johnson 
[23]     Edward  Inman  to  William  Bukland, 

Edward  Inman  and  John  Moory  yeomen paid  by 

William  Bukland,  Joseph  Bukland,  and   Benjamin  Bukland, 

of  Rehoboth New-Plymoth a  full  sixt  part  of 

a  tract  of  Land William  Minionion  sold  Edward  Inman 

and  John  Moory:  the  whole  tract  of  Land  that  Edward 
Inman  and  John  Moory  purchassed  is  Bounded  as  foUoweth, 
the  first  bounds  beinge  a  chesnut  tree  marked  on  fower  sides 
at  the  first  Indian  Feild  on  the  South,  one  Weskutomsuk 
hill  runninge  a  mile  due  North  and  then  upon  a  line  unto 
Unmoktakconitt  taking  in  all  the  meddow  and  soe  to  run  to 
Nipshankuk,  and  to  the  Indians  ground,  and  soe  to  a  clump 
of  pines  called  the  Key  and  soe  to  the  spring  at  Wesukuttom- 
suk,  and  soe  Wesukuttomsuk  to  the  chesnutt  tree  above- 
mentioned  and  soe  to  patuket  River, tenth  day  of  Octo- 
ber 1672 

Wit.  Edward  Inman 

William  Carpenter  John  Mowry 

John  Johnson 
[24]     Edward  Inman  to  William  Bukland 

Edward    Inman of    Rhod-Island yeoman 

paid    by   William    Bukland   Joseph    Bukland    and    Benjamin 

Bukland  of  Rehoboth New  Plymoth a  full  sixt  part 

of   the Lands he   purchassed   of   William   Mininion 

the  whole  Tract  of  Land  beinge  bounded, at  Wewesupin- 


23 

sit  and  from  thence  upon  a  straight  line  to  amettococomet 
and  from  amettococomet  to  the  midle  of  a  great  seader  swamp 
to  a  Butten  tree  and  from  thence  to  patucket  River,  almost 
North  there  bounded  by  a  walnutt  tree  this  Land  comonly 

Knowne  by  the  name  of  Wansukett,  hill tenth  day  of 

October  in  the  yeare  of  Our  Lord  one  thousand  six  hundred 
seventy  &  two  Edward  Inman 

Wit. 

William  Carpenter 
John  Johnson 
[25]     Letter  of  aturney  from  John  Alcock  to  John  Williams.. 

Overseers    and    Guardians mr.    John    Alcock    De- 

ceassed: considering accounts  of  severall  Inhabi- 
tants of  Block-Island hereby  order John  Wil- 
liams  to    demand full    satisfaction    of    the    several 

23th  February  1668. 

Wit. 

John  Leveret     Wm  Davis 
Peter  X  George     his  marke 
Edward  Ball 

Richard  Russell 
Ann  Apalsgrave  her  marke 
Edward  Rawson 
John  Hull 
Thomas  terry  to  John  Acres. 

thomas  terry  of  Block-Island yeoman paid  by 

John  Acres  of Block-Island One  hundred  and  Fifty 

acres    of    Land upon    Block-Island,    adjoyninge   to   the 

Land  of  Samuell  Staple  on  the  North  on  the  sea  to  the  South- 
west, and  Joyninge  to  mr.  Phillip  Wharton  on  the  South- 
Easterly  exceptinge  one  acre  and  so  to  run  East  in  the  Land 
of  Thomas  Terry  till  it  makes  up  the  Complement  of   one 

hundred  and  Fifty  acres, Fifth  day  of  Aprill 1670 

Wit.  Thomas  Terry 

Lyman  Ray 
Jno  Williams 
John  Acres  to  John  Williams. 


24 

Received  of  John  Acres  of  Block  Island Twelve  pound 

in  sheepe  and  catle  upon publick  charges  of  halfe  a  share 

of  Land  that  did  belong  to  Edward  Vose 30th  of  October 

1672 

Wit.  X  me  John  Williams 

Emanuell  Woolsey 
hi. 

Turinut  X  Rose 
marke 

Edward  Inman — ^John  Mowry  Land  Recorded. 
Edward   Inman  and  John   Mowry   both   of provi- 
dence  Right  posession  of Land  by  them  purchased 

of -an    Indian   called   William    Minion, containinge   two 

thousand  acres lyinge  from  Logiussett  Northward.     The 

first  bound  is  a  chesnut  tree,  on  the  South  marked  on  four 
sides,  at  the  first  Indian  feild  on  Wessukkutomsuk  hill  run- 
inge  a  mile  due  North,  and  then  upon  a  line  to  ummolutuk- 
konitt,  takeinge  in  all  the  medow,  and  soe  to  run  to  Nipsha- 
ruck,  and  soe  to  the  Indians  ground,  and  soe  to  a  champ  of 
pines  called  the  Key,  and  soe  to  the  springe  called  Wessukka- 
tomsuk  to  the  chesnutt  tree  above-named,  and  soe  to  the 
patuckitt  river — Northward  and  on  the  end  of  the  Mill  north 

to  patuckitt  river, together  with  all dwellinge  houses, 

Barnes, are  hereby  ratefied  by  law  made  22th  of   May 

1662 fourth  of  February  1672 

John  Sanford  Recorder. 
[27]     Wm.  Dyre  to  Henry  Dyre. 

WilHam    Dyre    of    Newport Gent granted    to 

my  sonn  Henry  Dyre  into  that  part  of  my  Farme  lyinge  at 
the  northerly  and  there  of :  to  witt,  from  the  Stone  Ditch,  as 
alsoe  from  the  tree  where  my  sonn  Mahers  Tobacco  house 
stood,  from  the  Cave  to  and  by  that  tree  upon  an  Equi  dis- 
tante  line  from  the  said  Stone  Ditch  downe  unto  and  through 
the  swamp  unto  mr,   Coddingtons   line  by  the   brooke    (the 

fence   is   equally   devided) percell   of   Land.... so 

bounded  with  a  free  Egress  ingress  and  regress  to  and  through 


25 

the   Land   of   my   sonn   Samuells but   in   case   my  sonn 

Henry  should  have  Isue  only  Femailes  then  my  sonn  Samuell 

after  the  death  of  the  said  Henry  shall  Give  one  hundred 

and  fifty  pounds  starllinge  the  eldest  to  have  a  double  portion 
the  rest  an  equall  dividend  of  the  Residue,  but  if  only  one 

all  to  her  &c  besides  the  Valluation  of  the. . .  .houssinge 

....  .thereon  built the   Land   to  return   to Samuell 

7th  day  of  July  1670.  William  Dyre. 

Wit. 

The  X  marke  off. 

Robert  Spinke. 

John  Furnell. 
[28]     Award  of  John  Easton  to  James  Barker  about  Henry 
Palmer  and  Stephen  Sebeere. 


Thirdly  Wee  do  Award Stephen  Sebeere  shall  acknowl- 

idge  unto  Henry  Palmer done  ronge  unto  him  and  his 

wife  in  sayinge  that  his  wife  is  a  witch 

Fourthly  Wee  do  award.     Henry  Palmer,     acknowlidge 

that   he   hath  done   Ronge   in   callinge Stephen    Sebeere 

French  dog  and  french  Roug 19th  day  of   Nov.   1672: 

John  Easton 
James  Barker 
Land  Recorded  of  John  Vahan.     [Vaughn] 

John  Vahan  of Newport percell  of  Land 

containinge  seventy-nine  acres  and  two  thirds  of  an  acre 

bounded,  Northward  partly  upon  the  Land  of  mr  Joshia  Cog- 
geshall  and  part  upon  the  Comon  Eastward  upon  the  Comon, 
Southward  upon  the   Comon  and  high-way  westward  upon 

the   Sea,   was   purchassed   Sixty   acres   of   Ralph   Earll 

thirteene  acres  of  John  Fairefeild  six  acres  and  two  thirds  of 

William    Lytherland,   together   with    all dwellinge 

houssis Ratified  by  a  law  of  the  22th  of  May  1662 

this  present i6th  of  Aprill   1673. 

[29]     Land  Recorded  of  John  Vahan. 

John    Vahan of    Newport peaceable   posession 

of Land     lyinge in Newport Eight     Acres 


26 

bounded  North-wardly  and  Eastwardly  upon  the  Comon 

South-wardly  upon  the   Scoole  Land  Westwardly  upon  the 

Land  of  mr  John  Clarke,  the Eight  acres. . .  .was  part  of 

it  purchassed   of   mr  Samuell  Wilbore  and  part  of   Robert 

Bennitt Eight     Acres with     alL  . .  .  .dwelHnge 

Ratefyed  by  the  law  of  22th  of  May  1662 i6th  day  of 

Aprill  1673. 

John  Vahan  to  his  sonn  John  Vahan. 

John    Vahan   of    Newport yeoman sonn   John 

Vahan grant Eight    acres.  .  .  .Newport.  .  .  .bounded 

Northwardly  and  Eastwardly  upon  the  Comon  Southwardly 
upon  the  Scoole  land  Westwardly  upon  the  Land  of  mr  John 

Clarke with    all the    dwellinge    or    mansion    houssis 

Barnes sixteenth  day  of  Aprill 1673: 

Wit.  John  Vahan 

John  Sanford  X 

Tyler  X  Pearce  his  marke 

his  marke 
[30]     Land  Recorded  of  Thomas  Burgis 

Thomas    Burgis of    Newport two    tracts 

one    Containinge Forty-Fower     Acres bounded    on 

the  East  and  South  by  Land  of  Robert  Taylor,  on  the  West 
by  the  Comon  on  the  North  by  the  Land  of  John  Wood  the 
other  beinge  a  percell  of  meddow  is  lyinge  in  these  meddowes 

comonly  called  Sachuest  Meddowes  and  is bounded  on 

the  East  or  south-east  by  Robert  Taylors  on  the  south  and 

westerly  by  a  Creeke  where  the  salt  watter  floes with  all 

dwellinge  or  mansion  housis According  to  a  Law 

of  the  Collony  made  22th  of  May  1662 Ratified 5th 

day  of  May  1673 

Richard  Knight  to  Laurance  Turner. 

Richard    Knight   of    Newpt sum    received sell 

unto  Laurance  Turner  of  the  afore-said  Towne  Fower  Acres 

of   Land bounded on   the   West   with  the  Land   of 

Richard  Knight,  and  to  begin  at  a  dead  tree  next  to  the  Land 
of  the  said  Laurance  Turner  at  the  South-west  comer,  and 
soe  to  Range  to  a  Liveinge  tree  on  the  North-west  Corner, 


27 

and  from  thence  downe  to  the  high-way  as  the  fence  runs 

which  Fence  the  said  Laurance  Turner  his  heirs 

to  maintaine  forever and  doth  binde  him  selfe  that  if 

there  Shall  be  any  Damages  or  Trespass  done  through 

the  Defect  of  the Fence he  shall  pay  Duble  Dam- 
ages  to   the   grieved   party    provided   the Lawrance 

have  tenn  daies   warninge   of   the   defects fifth   day   of 

December one  thousand  six  hundred  fifty  and  Eight. 

Wit.  Richard  Knight 

Will  Jefferay 

Richard  Bulgar 
[31]     Richard  Knight  to  Georg  Kenrick 

Richard   Knight   of    Newport sell unto    Georg. 

Kenrick  of  Providence Twelve  Acres Bounded 

to  the  North  with  certain  Lands  of  James  Weedens,  on  the 
East  with  the  high-way  that  goeth  to  the  Comon,  on  the 
south  with  the  Land  of  Lawrance  Turners  and  on  the  West 
with  the  Land  of  the  said  Richard  Knight  he Georg  Ken- 
rick also  is  to  leave  out  two  Rods  of  the  said  Land  lying  next 

to  James  Weedens  for  a  High-way,  only  for  the  use  of 

Richard   Knight, Georg  Kenrick   is   to  pay Twenty 

shillinge   an   acre two   and   Twentith   day   of   December 

1656 

Wit.  Richard  Knight 

Will  Jefferay 

Obadiah  Hulme 

Georg  Kenrick — Lawrance  Turner. 

Twenty  Eight  Day  of  December one  Thousand  six: 

hundred  sixty  and  three Georg  Kenrick  Lether  dresser 

livinge  in  Newport for Valuable  sum  of  mony 

Have sold  unto  Lawrance  Turner  Senr.  Masson  of  New- 
port  Land  beinge bounded  on  the  East  with  a  High 

way  that  leadith  into  the  Comon  On  the  South  with  Land  in: 
the  posession  of  Lawrance  Turner,  on  the  West  with  the 
Land  of  Richard  Knight,  and  on  the  North  with  a  High-way 
of  two  Rod-wide,  betwixt  the  afore-said  Land  and  the  Land 


28 

of  James  Weeden, with one  Dwellinge  house  all  out 

housing,  Hovills,  Barnes 

Wit.  Georg  Kenrick 

James  Barker  Jane  X  Kenrick 

John  Cranston  her  marke 
[32]     William  Jefferays  to  Lawrance  Turner. 
twenty  second  of   March one  Thousand   six  hun- 
dred Fifty  and  three  or  (54) sixty  seven  Rodd  or  pole 

in  Length  and  fifty  six Bredth  beinge  the  Eastern  part 

of  the  Lands  of  William  Jefferays  of  Newport Bounded 

on  East  by  the  high-way  betweene  the  Land  of  Clemant 
Weaver  Senr.  and  the  afore-said  Lands  on  the  South  by  a 

high-way  that  leadith  to  the  Milne  of  Newport on  the 

North  by  the  Land  of  Richard  Knight  and  on  the  West  by 

the     Land     of mr     William     Jefferays sold to 

Lawrance  Turner  and  Tobia  Saunders  both  of  Newport 

Wit.  Will  Jefferay 

Mordica  X  Cranett 
his  marke 

Wm  Lytherland 

Land  Recorded  of  Lawrance  Turner  and  Tobias  Saunders. 

Lawrance  Turner  and  Tobias   Saunders   both  of 

Newport   Land   in Newport   containinge   in    lenth   sixty 

seven  Rodds  and  in  Bredth  Fifty  six  Rodds bounded  on 

the  East,  and  South  by  high-waies  on  the  West  by  Land  now 
in  the  posession  of  Thomas  Waterman  formerly  belonging  to 
mr  William  Jefferay.  North  by  the  Land  of  the  said  Law- 
rance  Turner,  by  him  purchassed   of   Richard   Knight 

together  with  Dwelling rights According  to  a  Law 

made  in  this  Collony  the  22th  of  May  1662 Ratifyed 

29th  Day  of  May  1673 

[33]     Land  Recorded  of  Lawrance  Turner. 

Lawrance  Turner  of  Newport sixteene  Acres 

lyinge  within Newport bounded  North  by  the  Land 

lately  belonginge  to  James  Weeden  and  two  Rodds  Reserved 
by  Richard  Knight  for  a  high-way.  East  is  bounded  by  a 
high-way,  South — by  the  Land  purchased  by  the  said  Turner 


29 

and  Tobias  Saunders  of  mr  William  Jefferay;  West  by  the 
Land  of  Richard  Knight,  twelve  Acres  of  the  sixteene  beinge 
purchased  of   Georg  Kenrick,   and   fower  Acres  purchassed 

of Richard     Knight Land with     dwelinge 

Deed According  a  Law  made  in  Collony  the  22th  of  May 

1662 Ratifyed 29th  day  of  May,  1673 

Koshkotap  to  Thomas  Gould. 

Koshkotap  sachim  of  bassuketukquage  in  Nanhygansett 

bay  have  sold  unto  Thomas  Gould  of  Newport a  little 

Island  lyinge  betweene  Quononogutt  and  Rhod-Island  called 
by  the  Indians  aquepinoquk  and  by  the  English  Goulds  Island, 

and   have    received    satisfaction    for   the    same 28th    of 

March  1657 

Wit.  Koshkotap  sachim  of 

Georg  Hamonde  Bassuketukquage. 

John  Sassumon  his  X  marke 

Henry  Timberleake 

The  marke  X  of  apoowatuk. 

Aquinaumpau  to  Thomas  Gould. 
Aquinaumpau   haveing  been   a  planter   three  or   four  years 

upon  Aquibinauke  alias   Goulds   Island Resigne   up  my 

Right unto  Thomas  Gould 15th  of  May  1660 

Wit.  Aquinaumpau  X  his 

Henry  X  Timberlake  marke 

his  marke 

Georg  Hamonde 
[34]     Thomas  Gould  to  John  Cranston 

Thomas    Gould    of    Aquidnessett    in    the    Narragansett 

cuntry Twentyf      pounds       me paid,....|by      John 

Cranston  of  Newport Phisician Doe sell. a  cer- 

taine   Island   comonly   called Goulds-Island    and   by   the 

Indians  named  Acqueebenawquck  lyinge  in  the  Narragansett 

Bay Twentieth  Day  of  May 1673 

Wit.  Thomas  Gould 

John  Sanford 

Richard  Baily 


30 

l35]     John  Cranston — Deed  Ratifyed. 

Captn    John    Cranston of    Newport Phisician 

Beinge in  full posession  of  the  one  halfe  of 

that  Island  called  Goulds  Island  by  the  English  and  by  the 

Indians  called  Acqeebenawquk lyinge  in  the   Narragan- 

sett  Bay  and  between Rhod-Island  and  Quonogutt  Island 

and  whereas  by  Deed  of   Sale of   Thomas   Gould 

the   other  halfe  of   the   said   Island    (after   the   Decease   of 

Thomas  Gould)   shall  belong unto  the  said  Captn  John 

Cranston Deed According  to  a  Law  made  the  22th 

of  May  1673 Ratifyed 8th  Day  of  July  1673 

John  Cooke  to  Robert  Gibbs. 
John   Cooke,   of   Portsmouth  on   Rhod-Island yeo- 
man,  Twenty     pounds to     me paid Robert 

Gibbs  (now  Inhabittinge  at  punkatest  in New  Plymoth) 

Doe  sell three  fower  parts  of  a  share beinge 

In  New  Jersey  at  the  place  Comonly caled  portapeage 

Fifteenth  day  of  July 1673 

Wit.  John  Cooke 

John  Sanford  his  X  marke 

Francis  X  Brayton 
his  marke 

Deed  of  John  Cooke  to  Robert  Gibbs  anulled. 
This   Deed  mad   from  John   Cooke  unto   me   Robert   Gibbs, 

sale  beinge  made  voyde  by  mutuall   agreement   &  the 

originall  deed-Returned 24th  of  January  1674 

Wit.  Robert  Gibbs 

[36]     Thomas  Burge  to 

Tho.    Burge of    Newport for Eleven 

pounds  Five  Shillings  in  New  England  Silver to  me  paid 

by  John  Cooke  of Portsmouth sell the  one  sixt 

part  of  a  whole share  of  Land  Lyinge in Dart- 
moth New-Plymoth, at   the    places    Comonly   called 

Acushnett  Ponagansett  Acockssett  and  places  adjacent  in  the 

said  Towne-shipp  both  in  uplands  and  Meddows To  Bee 

Houldon  of  his  Majtie  of  England as  of  his  manner  of 

East  Greenwich  in  the  County  of  Kent and  not  in  Capitt 


31 

nor  in  Knights  service  by  the  Rents  and  services  thereby  due 

and  Law  accustomed Two  and  Twentith  Day  of  August 

1671 

Wit.  Thomas  Burge 

John  Sanford 

Richard  Hart 

Joseph  Anthony 
[37]     Jonathan  Atherton  to  Richard  Smith. 

Jonathan  Atherton  of  Dorchester Massachusetts  Collony 

sonn    and    heire    to    Humphrey   Atherton    of Dor- 
chester Deceased For the  sum  of  Fifty  pounds  mony 

in  England,  and  one  hundred  pounds  in  New  England  Mony 

paid  by   Richard   Smith   of   Narragnsett   in  the   Kings 

province have sold unto     Richard     Smith 

Land  lyinge  souther-most  in  the  great  Neck  Comonly  Called 

Boston  Neck  in  the  Narragansett  Cuntry adjoyninge  to 

the  harbour  Comonly   Called   Pettacomscutt  harbour,  beinge 
a  whole  share  of  that  purchase  and  is  about  seven  hundred 

acres  of  Land now  in  the  posession  of  George  Croft  my 

Tennant.    Together  with  all houses,  out-houses,  Barnes, 

Stables,  edeffices,  gardens  orchards  Fences  Comons three 

and  Twentith  day  of  July 1673 

Wit.  Jonathan  Atherton 

.  . .  .24th  of  July  1673  Jonathan 

Atherton owned  the  above  written 

....William   Coddington    Dept.    Go. 

Frances  Brimley 
Richard  Updick 
Edmund  Oliver 

The  marke  of 
Elizabeth  X  Geratt 
[38]     Richard  Smith  to  Joseph  Terry  and  Richard  Baily. 

Richard  Smith  of  Newport Mercht for a 

Valluable  sume  of  mony paid by  Joseph  Terry  and 

Richard  Baily  both  of  Newport Doe  sell Four  acres 


32 

lyinge  at  the  pond  side  in Portsmouth second  day  of 

March 1671 


72 

Wit.  Richd.  Smith 

John  Collins 

Francis  Simson 
[39]     Gersham  Cob  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

Gersham      Cob of      New-Plymouth for 

five  pounds  sta.  to  me paid  by  Thomas  Lawton  of  ports- 
mouth      in      Rhod-Island doth sell All my 

Land  at  a  place  Comonly  called  puncketert  Neck  lyinge 

.....against      Rhod-Island the     said     neck,      Medowes 

belonginge  unto  the  said  neck which  was  given  unto  me 

by  my  Gran  father  James  Hurst  Deceassed with  all 

wood,  watters thereunto  belonginge unto   

Thomas  Lawton To  be  howlden  of the  King  as  of 

his  manner  of  East  Greenwich Fifth  day  of  June 

1668 

Wit.  Gersham  Cob 

Thomas  Doty 

John  Smith  X  Senir 
his  marke 

Wm.  Crow 

Gersham  Cob acknowlidged 

the  above  written 

Tho.  Southworth  Asist. 

[40]     William  Nelson  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

William    Nelson    Senr.    of    New-plymoth for 

five  pounds  Starll paid  by  Thomas  Lawton  of  Portsmouth 

on  Rhod-Island Sell All Land  that  I  have  at  a 

place  Comonly  called  puncketest  Neck and Medowes 

and  the  Court  Grant  by  which  I  have  Right  to  the  said 

Neck To  be  Holden  of the  King  as  of  his  manner 

of  East  Greenwich  in  the  County  of  Kent  within  the  Rhelme 
of  England fifth  day  of  June 1668 


33 

Wit.  William  Nelson 

Thomas  Doty  Martha  X  Nelson 

John  Smith  X  Senr  her  marke 

his  marke 

Wim  Crow 
William  Nelson  and  Martha  his 

wife acknowlidged  the  above-written 

Tho  Southworth  Asistant 

5th  of  June  1668. 
[41]     Alice  Bradford  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

Alice  Bradford  Wid of  New-Plymoth for.  . .  . 

five-pounds    stall,    to   me paid    by    Thomas    Lawton    of 

Portsmouth Doth sell All Land  that  I  have 

at  a  place  Comonly  called  Puncketest  Neck beinge  against 

Rhod-Island To  be  Holden  ofif the  King  as  of  his 

manner  of  East  Greenwich  in  the  County  of  Kent  within  the 
Rhelme  of  England  in  free  and  Comon  Sottage,  and  not  in 
Capitte,  nor  by  Knights  Service  by  the  Rents  and  Services 
there  of  and  thereout  due  and  of  Right  Accustomed,  to  the 

only  proper  use  and  behoof e  of Thomas   Lawton 

fift  day  of  June 1668. 

Wit.  Alice  X  Bradford 

Jonathan  Sparrow  her  marke 

Wim  Crow. 

Mrs.  AHce  Bradford  came before  me  &  acknowleged 

the  Above to  be  her Deed 

Thomas  Southworth 

Asistant. 

William  Crow  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

William      Crow      of      New-Plymouth for five 

pownds  starll to  me paid  by  Thomas  Lawton 

have sold two    Necks    of    Land   that    lyeth    against 

Rhod-Island   comonly  called   Punketest   Neck   and    Sopowett 

Neck  that  is  uplands  or  medow  lands To  be  houlden  of 

the   King   as   of   his   manner   in   East   Greenwich 

twelfth  day  of  February  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  sixty  and 
eight 


34 

Wit.  Wim  Crow 

Jonathan  Barnes 

Jaber  Rowland 
[42]     John  Brigs  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John  Brigs  Senr  of   Portsmouth  on  Rhod-Island 

Yeoman for mony received  from  Thomas  Law- 
ton doe sell two  purchassers  proportion of 

Land lyinge in  the  Neck  of  Land  called  Puncketest 

lyinge  Eastwards  of  Rhod-Island To  be  Holden  of  his 

Majtie  of  England as  of  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich 

Nineteenth  day  of  February 1668. 

Wit.  John  X  Brig's  Senr 

John  Almy  his  marke 

Jos.  Holderbe 

[43]     Thomas  Southworth of  Plymouth five  pounds 

to  me  paid  by  mr  John  Almy of  Portsmouth  on  Rhod- 
Island Merchant doe sell all   my   share   of 

Land  Granted  to  the  Towne  of  Plymoth  afore-said  bearinge 
date  Anno  Dom.  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  Forty-nine  lying 

over    against     Rhod-Island comonly     called Punka- 

teaset  and  places  adjacent  both  upland  and  Medow as  it 

is  bounded  in  the  Record  of  the  Court  for  the  Jurisdiction  of 

Plymoth bearinge  date    1653 To  be   Holden of 

the  King Eight  of  March 1668 

Wit.  Thomas  Southworth 

James  Coal  Senr 

Nathaniell  Morton 

John  Almy  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John  Almy  of  Portsmo absolutely  assigne this 

Inwritten  Deed unto  Thomas  Lawton.  . , .  .Twentith  day 

of  September 1671 

Wit.  John  Almy 

his  X  marke 

Anthony  Emry 

William  Hall 
[44]     Thomas  Morton  to  John  Almy. 
Thomas    Morton.  . .  .of    Plymoth yeoman that 


35 

for five    pounds paid    by    mr    John    Almy of 

Portsmouth have sold All  my  share of  Land 

granted  to  the  Towne  of  Plymoth bearinge  date  Anno 

Dom   one    Thowsand    six   hundred    forty   nine    lyinge    over 

against  Rhod-Island att  a  place  called Punckateeset 

bounded  in  Record  of  the  Court  of  New-Plymoth  bear- 
inge date  1653,  both  devided  and  undevided,  That  which  is 

Devided belonging  unto  me  beinge  the  one  halfe  of  a 

lott layd  out  to  me and  Richard   Foster  deceassed 

beinge  in  number  the  35  lott To  be  Holden  of the 

King Eight  of  March 1668 

Wit.  The  X  marke  of 

James  Coal  Senr.  Thomas  morton 

William  Bassitt 

John  Almy  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John    Almy of     Portsmo have    received     full 

satisfaction for promisses     contained     in Deed, 

And  doe surrender  the  same unto Thomas  Law- 
ton Twentith  day  of  Septr 1671. 

Wit.  John  Almy 

The  X  marke  of 
Anthony  Emry 

William  Hall. 
[45]     Andrew  Ringe  to  John  Almy. 

Andrew  Ringe of  Plymoth for five  pounds 

to  me paid  by  mr  John  Almy  of  Portsmouth 

doe sell all  my  share off certaine  Tract  of 

Land  granted  to  the  Towne  of  Plymoth bearinge  Date 

Anno  Dom.  -one  Thowsand  six  hundred  Forty  nine,   lyinge 

over   against    Rhod-Island    at   a    place    comonly   called 

Punckateeset as  it  is  bounded  in  the  Record  of  the  Court 

for  the  Jurisdiction  of  Plymoth  bearinge  date  1653 one 

halfe   a   lott layd   out  to   me and    Gabill   Stallowell 

beinge  in  number  the  Eight  lott.     To  be  Holden  of the 

King   as   of   manner   of   East   Greenwich Ei^ht   day  of 

March 1668 


36 

'Wit.  Andrew  Ring 

Georg  Watson 

James  Browne 

Andrew  Ring  Acknowlidged  the  above-written before 

me  Thomas  Southworth  Assistant 

John  Almy  to  Thomas  Lawton 
John  Almy  of  Portsmouth have  received  full  satis- 
faction of  Thomas  Lawton. ...  .for promisses  contained 

in    the    inwritten    deed and    surrender    the    same 

Twentith  day  of  September 1671. 

Wit.  John  Almy. 

his  X  marke 

Anthony  Emry 

William  Hall 
[46]     John  Jourdaine  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John  Jourdaine  of  Plymouth Taylor for 

sum  of  five  pounds  and  odd  mony  to  me  alredy  paid  by 

Thomas    Lawton    of    portsmo Doe sell all    my 

share of  Land  granted  to Plymoth bearinge  date 

one    Thowsand    six    hundred    forty    nine    lyinge    over 

against    Rhod-Island at    a    place    comonly    called 

Punckatessett bounded  in  the  Record  of   court   for  the 

Jurisdiction     of     Plymoth bearinge    date     1653 one 

halfe  of  a  lott....layd  out  unto  me and  Jacob   Cooke 

beinge  in  Number  the  one  &  thertith  Lott To  be  Holden 

of the  King  as  of  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich 

eight  of  March 1668 

Wit.  the  marke 

James  Browne  of  John  X  Jourdaine 

Georg  Watson 

John  Jourdan  acknowlidged  the  above 

Thomas  Southworth  Assistant 

Samuell  Dunham  to  John  Almy. 

Samuell  Dunham of  Plymoth  planter for 

fewer  pounds  to  me paid  by  mr  John  Almy  of  Portsmoth 

yeoman, doe sell a  certaine  Tract  of  Land 

granted    to Plymoth bearinge   date one    Thow- 


37 

sand  six  hundred  forty  nine  lyinge  over  against  Rhod  Island 

at     a     place     comonly     called Punckateeset 

bounded  in  the  Record  of  the  Court  for  the  Jurisdiction  of 

Plymoth  bearinge  date  of  1653 beinge  one  halfe  of  a  lott 

layd  out  to  John  Dunham  Senior  my  father  late  de- 
ceased and  my  brother  Jonathan  his  sonn  beinge  in  Number 

the  seventeenth  Lott  my Father  his  halfe  thereof 

given  unto  me To  be  Holden  of the  King  as  of  his 

manner  of  East  Greenwich Eight  of  March 1668. 

Wit.  Samuell  Dunham 

Georg  Watson 
Jabez  Rowland. 

The  marke  of  X  Abigail  Dunham  sole 

Executrix of  John   Dunham   her 

husband 

the  marke  of 
Benem  X  Prat 
Daniell  Dunham 

Abigail   Dunham  Acknowlidged above before   me 

Tho.  Southward  Asistant 
[47]     John  Almy  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John  Almy of   Portsmouth have  received  full 

satisfaction    of    Thomas    Lawton for    all premisses 

in  this  within  written  Deed,  and  doe surrender  the 

same Twentith  Day  of  September 1671 

Wit.  John  Almy 

his  marke 
Anthony  X  Emry 
William  Hall. 
[48]     John  Richard  to  John  Almy. 

John  Richard  of New-Plymoth  in  the  Collony  of 

New-Plymoth for sum    of    five   pounds    starll 

paid  by  John  Almy doe sell all Land  that 

I  have  in  a  neck  of  Land  comonly  called   Punketest   Neck 

lyinge  against  Rhod-Island beinge  the  one  halfe  of  the 

Seventh  Lott  and  is  Eleven  acres To  be  Holden  as  of 

the   King  as   of   his   manner   of   East   Greenwich 


38 

Eighth  day  of  June  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  one. 
Wit,  John  Richard 

John  Miller 

Wm.  Crowe 
Acknowlidged  before  Tho.  prence  Govo. 

John  Almy  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John  Almy  of Portsmouth have  received   full 

satisfaction    of    Thomas    Lawton for    all promisses 

contained  in deed Twentith  day  of  September 

1671 

Wit.  John  Almy 

his  X  marke 

Anthony  Emry 

William  Hall 
[49]     Randall  Houlding  to  Anthony  Paine. 

June  2th!  1645 Randall  Houlding  of  Portsmouth in 

the  Nanhigansett  bay..  ...doe  sell  unto  Anthony  Paine  of 
the  same  Towne  one  percell  of  Land  containinge  one  hundred 

Acres butting  to  the  North  upon  the  Mill  Swamp  neer 

unto Portsmouth,    borderinge    to    the    south    upon    the 

Lands  of  Ralph  Earll — and  the  Lands  of  John  Roome  close 
adjoyninge  to  the  East  of  the  afore-said  hundred  acres  bor- 
dering to  the  West  upon  the  Lands  of  William  Freeborne.  . . . 
Wit.  Randall  Houldon 

John  Warner 

William  X  James 
marke 

Joseph  Wilbore 

Rose  Weeden  to  Mathew  Greenell. 

Rose  Weeden of Portsmo for  the  sum  of 

Therty  pounds doe sell unto  Mathew   Greenell 

of  the  Same  Towne a  certaine  percell  of  Land Fifty 

and  three  acres beinge  within  the  Bounds  of Ports- 
mouth  being   bounded    westerly   with   Land    late    in   the 

posession  of  Nathanill  Browninge,  Northerly  and  Southerly 
by  the  Comon,  Easterly  by  the  Land  of Mathew 


39 

with housinge, seventeenth   day   of    December 

one  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  and  three 
Wit.                                                                  Rose  X  Weeden 
John  Heath                                                       her  marke 
William  Hall 
[50]     John    Paine    to    Sarah    Hannah    and    Anna    Paine. 
Jno    Paine   of    Boston Mercht upon mar- 
riage with  Sarah  Parker did  receive  a  Considerable 

Estate  by  the  Gift  of  my Father  in  Law  Richard  Parker 

of Boston   Genta and   Did   Give unto  my 

wife a  certaine  Estate  in  Lands  and  housses  for her 

and  my  thre  children  Sarah  Hannah  and  Anna  Paine 

before  it  was  delivered it  pleassed God, sixteen 

hundred  Sixty  Six  January  25th  to  take  my wife  unto 

him  Selfe L  . .  .  .Request Nathanill  Paine  of  Reho- 

both    in Plymoth    and   Joseph   Taynter   of    Watertowne 

Mattachussetts in   trust   to    accept   this Estate 

but  for  the  Sole use of  these thre  children 

and     theire     next     heires I Have     Given, unto 

Joseph    Taynter    and     Nathanill     Paine     Yeomen That 

Norther-most    part    of    Prudence    Island   poyntinge   towards 
Providence  and  soe  Runninge  Southerly  to  the  fence  goeinge 

Cross  the Island  devidinge  between  the  Lands  Lett  unto 

John  Smith,  and  those  lett  unto  William  Allin, The  Bay 

or  waters  surrowndinge  it  on  all  other  sides containinge 

six     hundred     Acres with     buidings it     is in, 

the  power  of  me upon  the  payment  of  Three  Thousand 

pounds  of  Mony  of  New  England  to  the  use of  my  thre 

children to   purchass   the   above Lands Twenty 

day  of  July  sixteen  hundred  sixty  and  nine. 
Wit.  Jno.  Paine 

Ed  Page  and  Willia.  Howard. 

In  pressence  of  John  Smith  John  Snooke  and 

William  Allin 19th  August  1673 

John  Smith  X  his  marke 
William  Allin 

John  Snook  X  his  marke 


40 

[52]     Mathew  West — Land  Recorded. 

Mathew  West  of Newport Taylor,  beinge 

in posession  of  a  certaine  percell of  Land  contain- 

inge  Forty  Acres lyinge  within  the  bounds of  New- 
port,  and bounded   Northwardly   by  the   land   of   John 

Crandall,  Southwardly  by  the  land  of  John  Thornton,  East- 

wardly  and  Westwardly  by  the  Comon  which said  Land 

formerly  belonged  unto  John  Roe  and  Edward  Browse, 

with  all   Dwellings   or  mansion   houses    Barnes,    Outhouses, 

Fenceings,  Gardens,  Orchyards This Deed doth 

declare hereby  Ratifyed  accordinge  to  a  Law  made 

the  22th  of  May  1662 Recorded  28th  day  of  March 

1674 

John  Sanford. 

Thomas  Ward — Land  Recorded. 

Thomas    Ward   of    Newport Merchant beinge 

in posession  of  a percell  of  Land  Containeinge 

tenn  Acres within  the  bounds of  Newport, 

is bounded  North  and  West  partly  by  a  Ditch  beteene 

the  Land  of  William  Coddington  Esquir.  and  the  said  Land 

and  partly  by  the  Comon,  on  the  South,  by  the  Lands  of 

Captn  John  Cranston,   on  the  East  by  a  certaine  peice   of 

Comon  called  Bakers  Swamp,  which Land  was  by 

Thomas  Ward  purchassed  of  Mary  and  William  Timberlake., 

All    which Land with    all    dwelHnge    or    mansion 

houses,  Barnes,  Out-houses,  Fences,  Gardens  Orchards 

This doth declare hereby  Ratifyed  according  to 

a  law  made  May  22,  1662 17th  of  June  1674 

John  Sanford 

[53]     Joseph  Wise  to  Deacon  William  Parke. 

Joseph  Wise  of  Roxbury  in  the  County  of  Suffolke  in 

New-England for Twenty   five   pound    in   mony    & 

come   &  catle paid   by   Deacon   William   Parke   of    the 

Towne abovesd doth    hereby sell the 

halfe  part  of  six  hundred  Acres  of  Arable  Land  medow 

&  pasture beinge  in  the  Towneshipp  of  Providence  butted 

by  the  Land  of  Thomas  Borden  North,  by  the  Land  of  Henry 


I     41 

Fowler  South  by  the  Land  of  Hugh  Bluett  East  by  the  Towne 

land  West,     which  sd.  six  hundred  acres the  said  Wise 

purchassed  of  William  Feild  &  Henry  Fowler the  moety 

hereby  convayed  is one  halfe  of  six  hundred  acres  if  it 

be  more,  or  300  acres  certaine,  if  the  same  be  less and  to 

be   the    Northerly  end of Tract to    be   devided 

by  an  Easterly  lyne  before  the  first  of  October  next,  at  fower- 

teen  daies  warninge seventh  day  of  June one  Thow- 

sand  six  hundred  seventy  one. 

Joseph  Wise  (Senr.) 

there  is  a  mistake  in  the  South  bounds  being  said  upon 

the  land  of  Henry  Fowler  it  must  be  said  in  the  Records 
upon  the  Land  of  Joseph  Wise  Senr.  which  is  soe  agreed 

upon  by  Joseph  Wise And  Samuell  Williams for  his 

father  Deacon  William  Park 

Wit.                                                               Joseph  Wise  Senr. 
Thomas  Harris  Senr.                              Samuell  Williams, 
the  marke  of 
John  X  Allin 
Joseph  Dardley 
Tobias  Davis 
the  said  William  Park  is  to  have  the  one  halfe  of  Privi- 
leges  in Providence    which Joseph    Wise    pur- 
chassed of  mr  John  Sayles the  sd  purchasser  shall  have 

noe  more  meddow  than  lyes  exactly  on northerly  side  of 

lyne 

Joseph  Dudley 

Nathanill  Seuer 

[54]     Thomas  Gould  to  John  Cranston 

Thomas    Gould   of    Aquednessett   in   the    Narragansett 

Cuntry did    by    a Deed    of    Bargaine bearinge 

date  the  Twentith  day  of  May 1673 sell  Unto  John 

Cranston  of  Newport physician  the  Island  called  Goulds 

Island   and    by    the    Indians    named    Acqueebenawquck 

beinge  in   Narragansett  Bay only  Reserveinge  unto  my 

selfe  the  one  halfe  of Island  For the  Tearme  of  my 

Naturall  life for Valuable  satisfaction  unto  me 


42 

paid twelfth  day  of  May 1674 

Wit.  Thomas  Gould 

Joseph  Toney 
Ireh  Bull 
Richard  Baily 
[55]     John  Cranston — Land  Recorded. 

Captn.  John  Cranston  of Newport phisician  by 

Due  purchass from  Thomas  Gould  of  Aquednes- 

sett beinge  in posession  of  a  certaine  Island  lyinge 

betweene  Rhode-Island  and Quononoqutt,  and 

Knowne  to  the  English  by  the  Name  of  Goulds-Island,  to  the 

Indians Aqueebenaquck now every   part    of 

Island  beinge  within posession  of Captn  John 

Cranston with  all   Dwelling  or  mansion  houses   Barnes 

Orchyard premisses according  to  a  Law  made 

the  22th   of   May   1662 are  hereby   Ratifyed 

Recorded  24th  day  of  June 1674 

William  Weeden — Land  Recorded 

William    Weeden of    Newport beinge    in 

posession     of     Land     lyinge     within Newport sixty 

Acres bounded  Northwardly  by  the  Land  of  Joseph  Card, 

Eastwardly  partly  upon  a  drift  Way  to  the  Land  of  Joseph 
Card,  partly  upon  Land  of  James  Rogers  and  partly  upon  the 
mill  pond ;  Southwardly  upon  the  Land  of  John  Bliss  and 
Westwardly  partly  upon  the  Land  of  Joseph  Torrey  and 
partly  upon  the  Land  of  mr  Bendedict  Arnold  Only  this  is 
Reserved  for  publick  use  the  Liberty  of  a  Driftt-way  two 
Rodd  wides  through  the  said  Land  for  all  persons  that  have 

occassion  to  pass that  way  to  and   from   Newport,  All 

of  the Land with  all  Dwellinge  or  Mansion  housis, 

Barnes, Orchards,  Gardens and  all Rights 

according  to   a   Law   made  the  22th   of   May    1662 are 

hereby  Ratifyed Recorded  30th  day  of  June 1674. 

John  Sanford 
[56]     Joseph  Card — Land  Recorded. 

Joseph  Card  of Newport beinge  in Law- 
full    posession    of Land lyinge    within Towne 


43 

of  Newport  containinge  Sixty  acres bounded,  Eastwardly 

partly  by  the  Land  of  James  Rogers,  and  part  upon  the  Mill 
river  Southwardly  partly  upon  the  land  of  William  Weeden 
and  part  upon  the  Land  of  Mr  Benedict  Arnold  Westwardly 
partly  upon  the  said  mr  Arnolds  land,  part  upon  the  high- 
way and  part  upon  tenn  Acres  of  Land  given  to  Jo  Card  and 
now  in  the  posession  of  his  mother — Northwardly  partly  upon 
the  said  tenn  Acres  and  part  upon  the  Land  of  mr.  Peleg 

Sanford   or  mr  William   Brenton with  all   dwellinge   or 

mansion     houses,     Barnes, Orchards,     Gardens All 

promisses  according  to  a  Law  made  the  22th  of  May 

1662   are   hereby  Ratifyed Recorded   first   day    of   July 

1674 

John  Sanford 

Agreement    betweene    Walter    Clarke    and    Mrs.    Francis 

Vahan 
Articles  of  agreement betweene  Walter  Clarke  of  New- 
port  and    his    mother    mrs    Francis    Vahan agreed 

upon  also  by the  Gaurdians  of Walter  Clarke   (his 

brother  in  law)  mr  Barker  and  Captn  Cranston Walter 

Clarke hath setled     upon      him the     dwellinge 

house  where  in  mrs  francis  Vahan  now  lives  with  the  yards 

Garden  and  Orchard and  the  grass  plat  which  lyeth  next 

to  the  sea  before  the  house,  and  the  Barne  with  the  litle  barne 
Feild,  and  great  Barne  Feild,  and  the  ground  comonly  called 
the  Meddowes  buttinge  upon  mr  Eastons  ground,  mr  Brentons 
Ground    lately    bought    of    Goodman    Champlin.     Goodman 

Clintons   Land   and   mr   Arnolds ;   and sixty   acres 

lyinge   by   Marmaduke   Wards    Land:    Which   houseing  and 

Woods is  declared  to  be  the  Inheritance  of 

Walter   Clarke the   halfe   of   the   house  comonly   called 

the    Stronge   Walter  house,   wherein   Goodman    Moone 

now  lives  with  the  Land  thereto  belonginge  is  to  be  sold  by 

mrs  Francis  Vahan  to  pay  debts: the  Land  called 

the  farme  buttinge  upon  mrs.  Coggeshalls  Farme,  and  Good- 
man Bulls  with  the  swamp  buttinge  upon  Goodman  Bulls,  and 
Marmaduke    Wards    meddows, is   to    remaine    with   the 


44 

said  mrs.   Francis   Vahan  for  she and  the  rest  of  the 

children,    which   she   had   by  her   husband    Captn   Jeremiah 

Clarke The  houseinge  which  Captn  Cranston  now  Hves 

in  with  the  Land is  to  be Captn  Cranstons The 

Land  which  mr  Arnold  bought  of  Captn  Clarke  is  to  be 

confirmed by  Deed  from Walter  Clarke 

Eighteenth  of  January  1656 

Signed  by     Francis  Vahan  John  Cranston  Gardian 

James  Barker  Gardian     Walter  Clarke 
[57]     John  Clarke  to  Richard  Smith. 

John    Clarke    of    Newport phisician For 

the  Sum  of  Twenty  pounds  starling  unto  me paid by 

Richard  Smith  of   Newport Merchant, doe sell 

Land    lyinge in Newport and    late in 

the    posession    of    Francis    Binley bounded on    the 

north by Land  now  in  the  posession  of  me ,  on 

the  West  by  the  Sea  or  harbour  of  the  said  Towne  of  New- 
port, and  on  the  South  and  East  by  certaine  high-waies,  the 

said  land granted  Exetndinge  from  the  said  Land  now  in 

my  posession  on  the  North  untill  it  come  fower  foot  to  the 
Southward  of  the  Warehouse  thereon  Erected,  on  the  South 

where  it  meets  with  the highway  belonginge  to  the  said 

Towne,  and  is  in  bredth  from  the Land  belonginge  unto 

me  on  the  North  to  the high-way  on  the  South  fifty  fower 

Foott seven  and  Twentith  day  of  April 1674 

Wit.  John  Clarke 

John  Salmon 

Richard  Baily 
[58]     Samuell  Wilbore  to  Hannah  Clarke. 

Samuell  Wilbore  of Portsmouth  of  Rhode  Island 

there  was  Granted  and  layd  out  to  me By  order  of 

the  free-Inhabitants  of  the  said  Towne  for  which  the  Treas- 
urer   is    paid a    certaine    percell    of    Land    beinge 

Sixty-two     Acres beinge     within     the Towne-shipp 

of     portsmo bounded southwardly with    the 

Land    of    Thomas    Lawton    and    William    Freeborne    East- 
wardly    with     a    high-way    between     the     said     Land     and 


45 

Burtons  Lands,  and  a  high-way  betweene  the  said  Land 
and  Ralph  Cowlands  land,  Eastwards  Northerwardly  with 
a    hig-way    between    the    said    Land    and    Gyles     Slocums 

Lands     Westwardly     with     the     Comon, doe Give, 

my Daughter     Hannah     Wilbore     alias     Hannah 

Clarke,  and  to  my sonn  in  law  Latham  Clarke  her  Hus- 
band  Twenty  day  of  Aprill 1666. 

Wit.  Samuell  Wilbore 

Caleb  Arnold 

Margrit  Porter 

Receipt  for  mony  paid  by  Samuell  Wilbore 
Where  as  it  is  ordered  that  for  every  acre  of  Land  that  is 

impropriated  two  shills.  is  to  be  paid  in  to  the  Treasury 

have  Received  of  Samuell  Wilbore  six  pounds  Eight  Shillings 

for  sixty  fower  Acres Layd  out  to  him  on  this  side 

mr    Sanfords Received    by   me 2rt    of    Aprill    1658 

6  £  -0-0 

William  Baulston  Treasurer 
for  Portsmouth 
[59]     Samuell  Wilbore  to  Latham  Clarke. 

Samuell  Wilbore  of  Portsmo.  on  Rhode-Island doe 

give my, son  in  law  Latham  Clarke three 

peeces of  Land  Contaninge  in  the  whole  Five  hundred 

Acres beinge    in    the    Narragansett    Cuntry    or    Kings 

Province, is   part   of Land   there   of    which    I 

with others  are  a  Joynt purchasser ,  one  per- 

cell    of    the   said   five   hundred   acres granted    being©  a 

house    lott    lyinge    at    Pettacomscutt   containinge Therty 

acres bounded  on  the  South  by  the  Minnerall  land  on 

the  West  by  a  high  way  on  the  North  by  Land  now  in  the 

posession  of  me and  on  the  East  by  a  high-way  or  foot 

path,  an  other  percell  of  the  said  five  hundred  acres con- 

taineth Two  hundred  and  Twenty  acres and  is  the 

one  halfe  of  fower  hundred  and  forty  acres  granted  unto  me 
by  the  purchassers  lyinge  about  a  mile  &  a  halfe  Northerly 

from  Pettacomscutt the  other  halfe  beinge  my  sonn  in 

law  Caleb  Arnolds  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  the  said 


46 

fower  hundred  and   forty  acres to  be   Equally  devided 

both  upland  and  Meddow  between  my sonns  in  law- 
Latham  Clarke  and  Caleb  Arnold, Latham  Clarke  is  to 

have  the  first  choyce  and  the  Remainder  of  the  said  five  hun- 
dred acres is  Two  hundred  and  Fifty  acres,  being  the 

half  of  five  hundred  acres  granted  unto  me  by  the  purchassors 
but  not  as  yett  Layd  out,  the  other  half  beinge  my  Sonn  in 
law  Caleb  Arnolds  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  the  said 

five   hundred   acres last    mentioned to   be    Eaqually 

devided  both  upland  and  meadow  between  my sonns  in 

Law  Latham  Clarke  and  Caleb  Arnold, Caleb  Arnold  is 

to  have  the  first  choyce: fourteenth  day  of  October  1671 

Wit.  Samuell  Wilbur 

John  Heath 

William  Correy 
[60]     John  Greene  to  Thomas  Lawton. 

John  Greene  Junr of  Warwick have  sold  unto 

Thomas  Lawton  of  Portsmouth  on  Rhode  Island  Six  hundred 

acres  of  upland beinge  appointed  by  the  purchassers 

of  Warwick  to  be  layd  out  for  me  as  yett  undevided I 

have  sold  the  said  Land  lyinge  at  the  Southwest  end  of  War- 
wick  for  the   sum   of    sixteen   pounds 28th   day   of 

November  1654 

Wit.  John  Greene  Junr. 

Mathew  Bridgman 

Thomas  Greene. 

Agreement  between  Thomas  Lawton  and  John  Almy. 
Puckatest,  the  17th  day  of  March  1673 

Mutually    agreed between     Thomas     Lawton    and 

John  Almy  both  beinge  proprietors  and  part  owners of 

the neck  of  land  called  punckatest, there  hath  been 

difference  between Lawton  and  Almy  in  Refiferance  to 

their claimes in  the  said  Neck  of  Land, Almy 

hath  had   of Lawton   some   hundreds   of    Rayles   and   a 

Carte     the     same     are acquited And for     the 

Future Lawton  is  to  have  and make  use  of for 


47 

seven  yeares   from the  date  here  of the   Sixt 

part  of Punckatest 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Lawton 

Constant  Southworth  his  marke 

John  Sanford.  John  Almy 

John  Champlin  releaces  Negro  Salmerdore. 

thirtith  day  of March John  Champlin  heire  to 

John  Card  Deceased did  declare  that  he  gave  his  Negro 

Salmerdore  his  Freedom forever Newport  on  Rhode 

Island  Walter  Clarke  Asistant. 

[6i]     Joseph  Carpenter  to  Abyah  Carpenter 

Joseph   Carpenter  of   Muskeeto   Cove   In  Longe-Island 

within  the  CoUony  of James  Duke  of  Yorke, have 

made  an  Exchainge  of  Lands  with  my  Brother  in  Law  Abyah 

Carpenter  of   Pawtuxet  in  Rhode-Island  Collony Lands 

which    I    Exchainge is    all Lands    and    Comonage 

which  Fell  to  me  by  my  wife from  her  father,  And  alsoe 

a  therd  part  of  my  Lands  which  lyeth  betweene  Paseaunsa 

Cove  and  Pawtuxett  River,  And Five  pounds Oyster 

bay Eight  day  of  June one  Thowsand  Six  hundred 

Seventy  &  three 

Wit.  Joseph  Carpenter 

Matthias  Harvy 

Nathanill  Coles. 

Edward  Robinson  to  Samuell  Billing. 

Feb.  the  twenty  thurd one  Thowsand  Six  hundred 

Eight Edward  Robinson   of    Newport for   Valuable 

Consideration sold  unto  Samuell  Billing of  Newport 

Land    lyinge    within Newport neare    the    line 

tetweene    Newport    and    Portsmouth    Contaninge Eight 

acres  one  thurd lyinge  on  the  North  side  the  Land  of 

Samuell  Billinge  yt  was  bought  of  Thomas  Wood,  bounded 
on  the  East  by  the  Comon  Seventeen  pole  to  a  small  shrub 
oake,  on  the  North  by  the  Comon  fower  score  pole  to  a  small 
"black  oake  beinge  marked  for  the  two  Corner  trees  on  the 
North  side  all  which Land granted  me by  the 


48 
« 

Towne  of  Newport 

Wit.  Edward 

Richard  Tew  his  X  marke 

Tames  Barker  Robbyson 

Edward  Smith  and  James  Barker — bounds  changed. 

January 27  at  a  quarter  meetinge  it  was  Ordered  upon 

a  Request  of  mr  Richard  Tew  that  mr  Edward  Smith  and  mr 
James  Barker  should  remove  the  bounds  of  the  land  bought 

of  Wood  leaving  out  as  much at  the  North-east  corner 

as  they  take  in  from  the  Comon  at  the  North-west  corner. 

X  me  Marke  Lucar  To.  Gierke 

to  certify.  .  ^  .  .that  accordinge  to  order  made  the  27th 

of  January  1657  wee  have  taken  31  Rod  from  the  North-east 
corner  of  Mr  Tews  land  and  laid  out  31  Rod  to  the  North- 
west corner,  this  2  of  February  1657 

Edward'  Smith 
James  Barker 
[62]     William  Brenton  to  Thomas  Ginings. 

19th  of   March one  Thowsand  six  hundred   Fifty 

nine William  Brenton  of  Newport  Marcht,  for full 

satisfaction hath sold     unto     Thomas     Ginings     of 

Portsmouth   on   Rhode   Island Eight  Acres in 

Portsmouth bounded  on  the  South  by  the  land  of 

Thomas  Ginings  lately  Gyles  Slocums  Land,  On  the  North  by 
the  land  of  Henry  Pearcy  lately  Nicholas  Brownes  land,  on 

the    East    and    West   by   the    Commo with all 

houses  fenceings, 

Wit.  William  Brenton 

William  Baulston 

WiUiam  Dyre  Senr. 

Thomas  Ginings  Senr  to  Thomas  Ginings 

Thomas  Ginings   Senr of   Portsmouth  on  Rhode  Island 

doe  for One  hundred  pounds  starll make  over 

unto  my  sonn  Thomas  Ginings  my  Now  dwellinge  house  and 

sixteen  acres  of  Land sixteen  day  of  July 1674 

Wit.  the  marke  X  of  Thomas 

Peter  Talman  Ginings  Senyor 

Richard  Bulgar 


49 

I  ann  Ginings aprove  of  all  the 

above 

Ann  Ginings 
[63]     Richard  Smith  to  John  Brigs. 

Richard    Smith    of    Narragansett for Twenty 

five  pounds received   from  John  Brigs  of   Narragansett 

have sold the    land    formerly   belonginge    to    Rubin 

Willis  which  I  bought  in  England  from  his  father  and  Mother 

William  and  Sussanah  Hixe havinge  order  from  Rubin 

Willis  to  make  sale  of  same,  it  lyinge in   Narragansett 

Cuntry   contaninge Fifty    seven    Acres bounded    on 

the  East  by  five-hundred  acres  of  Land  not  layd  out  as  it  is 
in  the  North  ward  purchass,  On  the  West  bounded  by  the 
Comon,  on  the  North  with  the  high-way,  on  the  South  by  the 

lands  of  Samuell  Waite, Eleventh  day  of  January 

1672 

Wit.  Richd  Smith 

Henry  X  Teeppitts 
his  marke. 

John  Greene 
[64]     Awawsunks  Sachim  to  James  Barker  &  Caleb  Carr 

Awaswunks   Sachim   Squa  of   Surronet  and  Wawwee- 

yowitt  her  husband,  and  Amos  alias  Samponock  their  sonn, 
for  Sixty  pounds  starllinge paid by  James  Bar- 
ker Senior  and  Caleb  Carr  Senior  both  of  Newport have 

sold their Land    lyinge at    Succonett whei- 

ther upland,  meddow,  pasture,  wood-grounds,   Marches, 

Creeks,   Coves,  Watterings,  Wayes, Nine  &  twen- 

tith    day    of    September One    Thowsand    six    hundred 

seventy  Power 

Wit.  Awawsucks  X  her  marke 

John  Greene  Amos  X  alias  Samponock 

Tho  Jefifery 

Machemowenin  X  alias  his  marke 

Interpreter     his  marke  George  the  Indian 

James  Sweet 

Interp  X  his  marke 


50 

Thirtieth  day  of  Septem:  1674  Awassuncks  and  Sampoo- 

nock  her  son owned  the  above-written Newport 

Walter  Clarke  Asist. 

This  Record not  a  true  Coppy Truly  Recorded  in 

the  69th  page  of  this  Booke. 

[65]     Joseph  Carpenter  to  Stephen  Arnold. 

Joseph  Carpenter of  Muskeata  Cove  neer  Oyster  Bay  on 

Long  Island Formerly  Inhabitant  on  the  south  of  Paw- 

tuxet     River     within Warwick For mony 

paid me    by    my    uncle    Stephen    Arnold    of    Pawtuxet 

within Towne-shipp  of  Providence Have  with 

consent  of  my  Father  WilHam   Carpenter of Paw- 
tuxet  doe sell unto uncle   Stephen   Arnold, 

one  halfe  of  all  my Lands on  the  South  side 

of Pawtuxet  river,  Exceptinge  only  my  dwellinge  house, 

lott  and  pasture  and  meddow  adjoyninge  to  it beinge  at 

the   place   of   the Pawtuxet   River  called   the   wadeinge 

place lyinge  on  the  north  side  and  west  end  of  a  Cove 

comonly    called Paseunkett     Cove     (within Towne- 
shipp  of  Warwick )   all  within  a  fence  and  on  a  Neck 

reachinge  Eastward  to  a  place  called Shuppaquansett,  the 

southern  part  boundinge  with  the Paseunkett  Cove,  The 

Genl.   fence  boundinge  the  West-em  part  of   the Land 

and  the  Northern  part bounded  by Land  of  Stephen 

Arnold And  alsoe  halfe  of  all  the  meddow  which 

William  Carpenter bought  of  Mathias  Harvie  formerly 

of Warwick which  is  scittuate on  the  head  and 

on  the  North  side  of paseunkett  Cove  it  reaching  to  and 

takeinge  a  place  called  Shuppaquonsett.    Alsoe one  halfe 

of    a    Corne    mill    standing   upon Pawtuxet    River   and 

at  the  Falls  of  the River  together  with  the  furniture 

belonginge  and  one  halfe  of  the  dwellinge  house  belonginge 

to  the mill,  as  alsoe  a  percell  of  meddow  adjoyninge  to 

the mill  and  dwelling  house  lyinge  Westward  from 

mill  and  dwelling  house  it  boundinge  on  the  south  part  with 

the Pawtuxet  River,  and  on  the  North  part  with  a  Lott 

belonginge  to  the  heires  of  Zachary  Roades   formerly 


51 

of    Pawtuxett,    the    Mill   dwelling   house   and    meddow 

is  on  the  North  side  of  the Pawtuxet  River  within 

Towne-shipp  of  Providence.     Alsoe  one  acre  of  Land 

beinge  from  the Pawtuxett  River  and  at  the  East  end 

of William  Carpenter  his Six  Acre  share  of  Land 

lyinge  in  that Land  called  Pawtuxet  great  Neck,  and  is 

the  Sixt  Lott  Northward  from  the Pawtuxett  Falls,  Alsoe 

fower  Shares  of  Land  in  Pawtuxett  little  Neck, which 

Neck  is on  the   Eastward  and   Northward   side   of   the 

mouth   of Pawtuxett  River  at  the  Isuinge  of   the 

River  into  the  sea;  The  which  Fower  shares  of  Land 

was   posessed    with    by   my Father   William    Carpenter, 

each    one    Contaninge one    acre    and    a    quarter   a 

peece three  of  them  lyinge  together  in  one  percell  bound- 
ing on  the  North  with  the  Land  of Stephen  Arnold  one 

the  South  with  Land  belonginge  to  the  heires  of  Zachariah 

Roades    on   the   West   with meddow    belonginge   to   the 

Surviver  of  Richd  Watterman  formerly of   Providence, 

and  on  the  East  with  the  Salt  River,  the  other  share  lyinge 
more  southward  and  boundinge  on  the  north  part,  with  the 

Land  of  William  Arnold  of Pawtuxet  and  on  the  south 

with  Land  belonging  to  the  heires  of  Zechariah  Roades  on  the 
East  part  with  the  salt  water  on  the  West  with  the  River  that 

runneth  from  the Falls I Binde  my  selfe 

at  all  times  to  save Stephen  Arnold from  any  claime 

which may    arise through    Hannah    my    now 

wife second  day  of    September One  Thousand   six 

hundred  seventy  Fower. 
Wit. 

Silas  Carpenter 
William  Carpenter  junr 

William  Carpenter  of  Pawtuxet 

Doe assent  unto the  above-said 

Joseph  Carpenter 
William  Carpenter  Senr. 
The  marke  of  X  Ana 
Carpenter 


52 

[6y]     Stephen  Burton  to  Francis  Brayton 

Stephen  Burton  (Eldist  sonn  of  Stephen  Burton  of 

London  Merchant.)    sonn  and  heire  unto  the   deceased   mr. 

Thomas    Burton    late of    Portsmouth    on    Rhode-Island 

I by due  right from  my Father 

Stephen  Burton by  deed all  the  lands formerly 

belonginge to  my Gran  father  Thomas  Burton, 

and  for three  pounds  five  shillings  New-England  silver, 

to  me paid  by  Francis  Brayton  of Portsmouth  Senr 

doe sell, Land    formerly   belonginge    unto   my 

Gran  father,  given  and  granted  unto  him  by  the  freemen 

of Portsmouth, fower  Acres lyinge  within  the 

said  Towne  on  the  hill  side  and  over  against  the  Comon  pound 

bounded  North,  East,  and  South  by  the  hig-way  and 

Comon  and  Westerly  by  the  land  now  in  the  posession  of  John 

Archer, fower  and  Twentith  day  of  July — 1671 

Wit.  Stephen  Burton 

John  Anthony 
John  Sanford 
Joseph  Anthony 

wee were  personally  present  and  did  see 

mr    Stephen    Burton make    delivery    of land 

unto  Lt.  Francis  Brayton by  turff  and  twig 

24th  of  July  1 67 1 

John  Anthony         John  Sanford 
John  X  Cooke       Joseph  Anthony 
his  marke 
[68]     John  Greene  to  William  Carpenter. 

John    Greene   Junr Warwick Have    sold   unto 

William   Carpenter   of    Pawtuxet   in   Providence all   my 

right  in  the  little  neck  of  Land  layinge  below  Pawtuxet  Falls, 

all  my  right  in  that  place  comonly  called  the  Vinyard, 

alsoe  my  right  of  Land  as  yett  undevided  from  Packas- 

sett  river  Eastward  downe  to  the  Sea  together  with  all  the 

previleges  of  water 20th  of  November  1658 

Wit.  John  Greene 

Ezekel  Holyman 
his  X  marke 
Christopher  Unthanke 


53 

[69]     Awawsunck  to  James  Barker  and  Caleb  Carr. 

Awawsunck  Sachim  Squa  of  Succonett  and  Wawwee- 

yowitt  her  husband  and  Amos  alias  Samponock  their  sonn 

for sixty  pounds   Starling paid by  James 

Barker  Senior  and  Caleb  Carr  Senior  both  of  Newport 

have sold all  our  Land  Lyinge at  So  Succonett 

be  it  upland,  meddow,  pasture,  wood  grounds,  marshes, 

with  all   Creeks,  coves,  waterings  waies nine 

and  Twentith  day  of  September One  Thousand  six  hun- 
dred and  seventy  four 
Wit. 

John  Greene 

Tho  Jefferay 

Machemowenin 

Interpreter  X  alias  George 

his  marke         the  Indian 

James  X  Sweet  Interpreter 
his  marke 

Awawsuncks  X  her  marke 
Wawweeyowit  X  husband  of 
Awawsuncks     his  marke 
Amos  X  alias  Samponack 
his  marke 

On  the  30th  day  of  September  1674 Awawsuncks  and 

Sampononck    her    sonn owned    the    above    written 

Newport Walter  Clarke  Asist. 

[70]     Cakochawhunt  to  James  Barker  and  Caleb  Carr. 

Cakochawhunt  alias  Simon  Eldist  sonn  of  Awawsuncks 

Sachim  Squa  of  Suaconett whereas  my  Mother  Awaw- 
suncks  with  my  Father  Wawweeyowitt  and  my  Brother 

Samponock  alias  Amos did sell  unto  James  Barker 

and  Caleb.  Carr all Land  belonginge  unto  them 

lyinge at  Succonett I doe willingly  consent 

to Deed sixth  day  of  November  One  Thousand  six 

hundred  seventy  and  four 

Wit.  Cakechawhunt  X  alias  Simon 

John  Greene  his  marke 

Tho.  Jefiferay 


54 

[/i]     Wm  Dyre — conserning  High  Wayes. 
High  Wayes  Layd  out  by  mr  Nicholas  Easton  mr  John  Clarke 
and  my  selfe 

In  the  Towne  of  Each  Side  the  eight  rod  Lotts  a  way  of  6 
poles  wide  with  a  way  of  2  rod  wide  between  each  fower. 
A  High-way  of  2  rod  wide  as  farr  as  Gardners  house  lott 
and  then  one  from  the  water  side  up  to  over  against  Havi- 
lands  house  soe  to  mr  Coggeshalls  farme  A  way  crossinge 
the  way  by  Tobies  house  lott  up  to  the  way  that  goes  to  mr 
Brentons  farme  principally  layd  out  for  the  accommodation 
of  the  Land  that  did  accomodate  the  house  Lotts  from  Harry 
Bulls  house  Lott  to  the  said  way  An  other  drift  way  up  to 
the  Southmead  Medows  of  2  poles  wide  Running  2  poles  be- 
tween Robinsons  Lott  and  Jefifereys  lott 

An  other  high-way  from  the  Entrance  of  mr  Coggeshalls 
farme  to  goe  to  castle  hill  and  soe  leadinge  to  all  the  Lands 
and  Comons  upon  the  neck  wch.  way  was  layd  out  by  us  to 
the  brooke  that  came  downe  by  Aplegates  plaine  the  rest  is 
not  detirmined  as  yett  where  to  runn — A  Highway  from  the 
Towne  layd  out  of  2  poles  wide  to  Wi.  Dyres  Farme  and  soe 
to  lead  to  the  lands  on  the  north  side  of  the  Towne  virt  the 
medows,  mr  Coddingtons  Cow-pasture  the  Artillery  Garden 
mr  Clarkes  land  and  Willia.  Dyres  Land,  and  soe  by  Wim. 
Dyres  medow ;  a  way  into  the  land  that  the  said  Dyre  bought 
of  Aplegate  to  fetch  off  the  wood  of  that  land  for  the  Townes 
use  which  Land  was  layd  forth  by  Captn  Clarke  and  mr 
Robert  Jefferays  as  alsoe  by  them  was  the  wood  reserved  and 
the  way  appointed  only  for  that  use 

A  High-way  appointed,  from  the  Towne  at  the  Corner  of  mr 
Barkers  Yz  acre  lott  to  goe  to  the  grass  and  medows  in  the 
pond  and  to  the  beach  wich  way  way  was  2  pole  wide  to  run 
along  betweene  the  Land  of  mr  Coggeshall,  Clarke,  Jeffereys 
on  the  west  side,  and  the  land  layd  out  to  mr  Easton  and 
others  on  the  East  side 

A  High-way  betweene  the  Lott  of  John  Lawrance,  and  Mar- 
maduke  Ward  of  2  pole  wide  leadinge  to  mr  Coddingtons 
lands,  only  the  way  betweene  Wilbor  land  and  Bakers,  and 


55 

Richardsons  was  above  6  pole  to  goe  to  Wanemetonony  hill 
and  soe  by  the  foot  of  the  hill  into  mr  Coddingtons  farme, 
and  soe  through  that  to  the  Lands  layd  out  at  Earlls  wigg- 
wam  comonly  calld  Pocassett  high  way 

A  High-way  at  the  east  end  of  Wards  land  to  goe  by  mr 
Brentons  land  to  green  end  and  the  lands  layd  forth  that  way, 
and  soe  a  highway  of  lo  pole  broad  to  the  said  mill  brook  soe 
for  as  these  lands  were  layd  out  to  Greenman  &c,  and  from 
that  way  was  another  way  to  goe  downe  to  the  mill. 
A  hie  way  appointed  to  goe  from  out  the  Night  Comon 
through  mr  Brentons  farme  to  the  Mill  for  2  Rod  wide,  and 
the  be  layd  out  where  was  most  convenient  for  horse  or  cart. 
A  hie-way  appointed  and  layd  out  to  go  up  by  mr  Fosters 
house  lott  to  mr  Bracys  farme  and  to  the  lands  layd  out  on 
the  South  and  Eastern  side  there  of  and  a  drift  way  appointed 
to  South  Mead  Medows  as  proper  only  therto. 
A  hie  way  layd  up  from  the  Mill  to  Joseph  Clarkes  and  soe- 
on  the  fore  side  of  those  lands  downe  to  the  Comon  beyond! 
mr  Barkers  that  on  the  east  side  of  the  Brooke  being  about 
20  pole  at  the  North  end  thereof  Cross  the  way  from  the  Mill 
at  the  end  of  mr  Brentons  mens  lotts  and  between  Captn. 
Clarkes  land  now  in  the  posession  of  Goodm  Weavor  went  the 
hie  way  towards  the  great  Comons,  and  by  the  side  of  mr 
John  Clarkes  Joseph  and  Thomas  Clarkes  lands  &c  being  on 
the  east  side  thereof  went  the  hie  way  of  six  poles  broad  to 
mr  Eastons  Farme,  and  from  that  layd  out  to  John  Anthony 
on  the  south  and  John  Lawton  on  the  North  went  downe  and 
was  laid  out  a  highway  of  six  poles  broad  downe  to  Stony 
River  to  meet  with  that  way  on  the  West  ends  of  mr  Barkers 
lands  and  soe  came  into  the  Comons  at  the  Rocks  and  from 
that  way  was  layd  out  to  each  neck  and  medows  and  beach. 
There  was  a  way  alsoe  layd  out  on  the  east  side  of  Greenmans 
land  that  butted  upon  the  Penfold  Richardson  lying  on  the 
other  side  wch  v/ay  was  to  goe  to  the  Penfold  being  layd  out 
to  mr  Brenton 

A  hie  way  lickwise  to  goe  up  on  the  northe  side  of  the  layd 
to  Andrews  which  way  went  to  the  Hermitage  and  these  lands 


56 

thereabouts  from  out  of  which  way  went  downe  to  the  high 
way  to  mr  Hutchinsons  Lands  but  for  which  hieways  was 
appointed  and  layd  to  the  lands  about  &  adjoyninge  to  Sachuis 

brook refer to  Record  of  lands  in  these  parts  layd 

out  by  mr  Robert  Jeffereys,  whose  fenceings  were  appointed 

by  mr  Jeffereys  Captn  Clarke  and  my  selfe I  doe  declare 

in  my  observation  two  or  three  impedimts 
First  mr  Coddington  in  that  his  way  that  goes  to  the  Artillery 
Garden  &  buryinge  place  he  hath  sett  neer  sixty  pole  of 
Fencing  upon  the  hie  way  six  foot  at  least  at  the  North  end 
2ly  Richard  Tew  hath  not  only  turned  the  part  of  the  hie  way 
out  of  his  proper  place  but  hath  incrocht  upon  and  inclossed 
upon  thre  rod  of  the  way  and  halfe  a  pole  upon  part  of  the 
rest.    Lett  them  therefore  that  knowes  any  injury  in  this  kinde 

put  it  downe soe  shall  wee  avoyd  hipocrisy  dissemula- 

tion,  bark  biteinge  and  secrett  wolveish  devoveringe  one  of 

another, lett  all  that  love  the   light  come   forth  to   the 

light  and  show  their  Deeds  soe  saith 

to  be  a  Record  Will  Dyre 

from  the  simple  and  honist 
intent  of  my  hart  &  soule 
this  isth  Feb.  1654 
[73]     Thomas  Clarkes  Will. 

Newport 28th  Day  of  July  1674 

The  Will of  Thomas  Clarke  Senior  liveinge  at  Newport 

my  Lands  upon  this  Island  with  the  houseings  Fence- 
ings  to  my  brother  Joseph   Clarke Lands   at   Quo- 

nonoqutt  Island unto  my  cussin  William  Clarke  sonn  of 

my   brother   Joseph    Clarke my    househould-stufif to 

my   brother   Joseph    Clarkes    wife    Margrett    Clarke the 

stock  upon  My  Farme  which  William  Clarke  in  joys  when  his 
time  is  out  is  to  be  distributed  amongst  my  brother  Joseph 

Clarkes  Children  eaqually  only  William  Excepted: there 

is  due   from  my  brother  John   Clarke   for service 

when  he  was  gon  for  England  twelve  yeares providinge 

for John  Clarkes   stock in  which  time   was   reared 

twenty  horse  kinde  and  about  nine-score  sheepe ;  and  one  hun- 


57 

dred  acres  of  Land  purchased  at  Quonnonoqutt,   a  quarter 

share  at  Miscomocutt  and  tenn  acres at  Aplegates  Neck 

upon  this  Island,  for  which  I  demand Twenty  pounds  a 

yeare,    and out    of    this my   will is   that    it   be 

equally   devided   betweene  my  brother  Joseph   Clarkes   chil- 
dren  to   see  this performed I  choose  mr  Oba- 

diah  Holmes  and  John  Salmon  both  of  Newport 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Clarke 

Walter  X  Cunygrave  his  marke 

his  marke 
James  X  Rogers 

his  marke 
George  Hamonds 

Walter    Cunigrave    and    James    Rogers    tooke oath    this 

Eighteenth  of  December  1674  to  be  the  last  Will of  the 

Deceassed  Thomas  Clarke,  before  me, 

Wim  Coddington  Govor. 
The  Names  of  the  Children  of  Joseph  Clarke  of New- 
port that  are  livinge  this  19th  of  December  1674 
i  Joseph  Clarke  i  William  Clarke  i  Mary                 (  Sarah  Clarke 
(  John  Clarke     f  Susanah              (  Joshua  Clarke  (  Thomas  Clarke 

Kary  Clarke 
Elizabeth  Clarke 
[74]     Thomas  Lawton — letter  of  aturny  to  Daniell  Lawton 

Thomas    Lawton    of    Portsmouth    upon    Rhode-Island 

Yeoman,    Have Constituted    my sonn    Daniell 

Lawton    of    Portsmo Yeoman,    to    be    my Aturney 

fifth    day    of    June One    Thowsand    Six    hundred 

Seventy  and  f  oure. 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Lawton 

John  Newton  his  marke 

John  Hayward  Scr. 

acknowlidged  by  Thomas  Lawton June  the  5th  1674 

before  me  Edw  Ring  Asistant 

[75]     Sarah  Reape  to  Leonard  Smith 

Sarah     Reape     of     Newpt Widdow for 

Twenty  and  three  pounds  Sterling paid by  Leonard 


58 

Smith for two    peeces of    Land    lying    in 

Providence Ninty  acres my  Husband  purchased  of 

John    Acres    in 1661 1 sett    my    hand one 

and  Thertith  day  of  March  One  Thousand  six  hundred  sev- 
enty and  f oure 
Wit.  Sarah  Reape 

John  Hullme 

Richard  Baily 
[76]     Gidion  Freeborne — Land  Recorded 

By  order  of  the  Towne  of  Portsmouth loth  of  12th 

month     1639 Given unto    WilHam    Freeborne 

One  hundred  and   Forty  Acres  of   Land Eighty  Acres 

Layd  out Westwardly  upon   the  sea   Northwardly 

upon  John   Walkers   side   line   Eastwardly   partly   upon   the 

Comon,  and  partly  upon  the  Land  granted unto  Randall 

Houldon,    and    Southwardly   upon   the    Comon, in 

Will of William  Freeborne  he  hath  given  Unto  his 

sonn   Gidion    Freeborne    all    the    said    Land Exceptinge 

that    part Formerly Given   to    his    Daughter    Sarah 

Brown  (ell — [worn     away] ) Eighty     acres Ratifyed 

John  Sanford 

William  Freeborne — receipts. 
14th  of  the  5th  month  1639 

for  every  Acre  of  Land  impropriated  two  shillings  shall 

be  payd  into  Treasury received  of  Goodman  Freeborne 

two  pounds  tenn  shillings  and  tenn  pence 

by  me.     Jo.  Coggeshall  Treasr. 
for  every  Acre  of  Land  that  is  impropriated  two  shill- 
ings is  to  be  payd  into  the  Treasury Received  of  William 

Freeborne.     Fower  pounds  seven  shillings  two  pence  which 

with  monyes payd is  in  full   for  one  hundred  and 

twelve  acres  of  Land  granted 25  of  January  1657 

4 :     07 :     02 
William  Baulston  Treasur. 
[77]     William  Freeborne — Land  Recorded. 

by Grant of      Portsmouth and      purchase 

from  others  William  Freeborne  was. .  :>  .posest  of per- 


59 

cell  of  Meddow  and  Upland  contaninge  Fower  acres  and  a 
halfe lyinge  in Portsmouth bounded  North- 
wardly by  a  high  way  to  the  Springe  Neere  mr  Baulstons 
Meddow,  Eastwardly  by  the  Creeke  and  Cove  neere  John 
Sanfords  Meddow,  Southwardly  by  the  Land  now  in  the 
posession  of   Thomas  Cornell  Westwardly  by  the  high-way 

and  Comon,  And William  Freeborne  in  his will 

haveinge.     Given the     said     Lands unto     his     sonn 

Gidion  Freeborne The  said  Land Ratifyd 

John  Sanfor'd. 

Boston  in  Massachussetts  Bay 

there  was  an  agreement  of  Eighteene  persons  to  make 

purchass  of  some  place  to  the  Southward  for  a  plantation 
whether  they  Resolved  to  Remove,  for  which  end  some  of 
them  was  sent  out  to  Veiw  a  place  for  them  selves  and  such 
others  as  they  should  Jake  in  to  the  liberty  of  Freemen  and 

purchassers upon  their  Veiw  was  purchasst  Rhod-Island. 

with  some  small  neighbouring  Islands  and  previleges  of  grass 
and  wood  of  the  Islands  in  the  Bay,  and  Maine  adjoyninge, 

the   saile   of   the purchass    from   the   Indians   hath 

ever  since  byne  in  the  hands  of  William  Cottinton  Esque. — 
<.  which  beinge  a  great  trouble  to  the  afore-said  purchassers 

and  Freemen  I doe promiss  to  deliver  the  said  Deeds 

with  what  Records  is  in  my  hands 14  April  1652 

'  j^^^'  ""'  Wim  Coddington, 

^   Robt.  Knight. 
Georg  Muning 
[78]     Wm  Brenton  to  Joseph  Browne 

William     Brenton     of     Tanton New-Plymoth 

Esqui unto  my  sonn  in  law  mr  Joseph  Browne  of  Charle- 

towne Massachussetts,  and  my  daughter  Mehetabell  (his 

wife)  .  . .  .  .have  given, All  yt  my  farme  on  Rhode-Island, 

formerly  in  posession  of  mr  John  Gard  deceassed  called  Midi- 
ford, bounded    Northwardly  with   the   land   of    Mathew 

Borden,  Eastwardly  with  the  sea,  Southwardly  with  the  land 
of  Thomas  Cooke  senior  and  Westwardly  with  the  Comon. 
the  Land  of  John  Cooke  and  Anthony  Shaw, about  two 


6o 

hundred  and  fifty  acres and  all  my  peece  of  Land  on 

Quononoqutt  which  I  purchased  from  Serjant  James  Rogers 

being  one  hundred  and  twenty  acres and  one  sixteenth 

part  of  all  my  Land  at  Natticot  on  Merrimack  River,  being 

Eight    Thowsand   acres   in   the   whole, with    all    houses, 

fences,  Barnes,  buildings, and  alsoe  two  breeding  mares, 

and  one  hundred  breeding  sheep i8th  day  of  August 

1674 

Wit.  William  Brenton 

Jahleel  Brenton 

John  Winchcombe 
[80]     William  Brenton  of  Newport — Will 

William    Brenton doe    make my    Eldist    sonn 

Jahleel  Brenton  my  Executor I  doe  give  unto Jah- 
leel  all  my  two  farmes  at  Hamersmith  now  in  posession 

of  John  Rathbon,  and  all  the  houses  fences  Barnes  Buildings 
with  the  Marshes  and  Upland  in  Newport  Neck  there- 
unto belonging,  and  one  Eight  part  of  all  my  Land  at  Natticot 

on  Merrimeck  River,  being tenn  Thousand  Acres, 

and  fower  oxen  and  working  steers  two  breeding  mares,  and 

one    hundred    breeding    sheepe unto    my    son    William 

Brenton my    farme in   posession   of    William    Case. 

and   all   houses, barnes, with adjaycent    swamp 

one  Eight  part  of  my Land  at  Natticot,  two  breed- 
ing mares  and  one  hundred  breeding  sheep : 

unto  my  son  Ebinezer  Brenton all  my  Neck  of  Land 

Called  Mattapoissett  now  in  posession  of  Jared  Bourne  senior, 

with  all  houses, Barnes, and  one  sixteenth  part  of 

my  Land  at  Natticot,  and  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  in 
Currant  Cuntry  pay  a  paire  of  oxen  two  breeding  mares  Eight 
Cowes  and  hiflfers  and  one  Bull 

unto   my   Daughter    Sarah    Brenton my    farme   at 

Quononoqutt  now  in  posession  of  Michall  Kaly  with  all  the 

houses, Barnes, and  one  sixteenth  part  of  my  Land 

at  Natticot  two  Breeding  mares  and  one  hundred  breeding 
sheep. 


6i 

unto    my    Daughter     Mehetabell    Brenton all    my 

farme    formerly   in   posession    of    mr   John    Gard   deceassed 

(now    to    be    called Midlford)     with    all    houses, 

Barnes, and   my  peece   of   Land   on   Quononoqutt   lying 

Northward   of   my Land   in  posession   of   Michall   Kaly 

which    I    bought    of    Serjant   James    Rogers, about    one 

hundred  and  Twenty  acres, and   one   sixteenth  part  of 

my Land  at  Natticot,  two  Breeding  Mares  and  one  hun- 
dred breeding  sheep. 

unto  my  Daughter  Abigail  Brenton my  farme 

bought  of  mr  Elisha  Hutchinson  of  Boston,  and Bakers 

farme,  and  one  sixteenth  part  of Land  at  Natticott,  and 

all    houses, Barnes, two    breeding    mares    and    one 

hundred  breeding  sheep : 

unto  my  son  in  law  mr  Peleg  Sanford one  Eight 

part  of  my Land  at  Natticot,  and  all  my  Right  title  and 

interest  in   Elizabeth   Islands,   and  the   Gay  head   and   Land 
adjaycent   thereunto,   and   all  the   Debts   Due  to   me   in   the 

Island  of  Barbados 

unto  my  sonn  in  Law  mr  John  Poole one   Eight 

part  of  my Land  Natticot : 

unto    my friend     Major    Generall    John     Leveret 

Esquire one  sixteenth  part  of  my Land  at  Natticot. 

unto  my friend  Captn  John  Cranston one  six- 
teenth part  of  my Land  at  Natticot unto  my 

friend  mr  George  Shove  Pastor  of  the  Church  at  Tanton 

one  sixteenth  part  of  my Land  at  Natticott. 

unto  my  Cussin  Philip  Sandy one  hundred  acres  of 

my Land  at  Natticott. 

unto  Michall  Kaly one  hundred  acres  of  my 

Land  at  Natticot. 

unto  John  Winchcombe two  hundred  acres  of  my 

Land  at  Natticott 

And  the  overpluss  of  my Land  Natticot   (if  any  be)   I 

leave   to   be   dispossed   of towards   a   stock    for my 

children And    I appointe    my son    in    law    mr 

Peleg     Sanford Guardian     over    my sons     Jahleel, 


62 

William   and   Ebinezer,   and   my daughter   Abigail, 

until  they  come  to  the  age  of  Twenty  &  one  yeares  unless 

Abigail  be  married  before that  age, unto  my  son  in 

law  mr  Peleg   Sanford  two  therd  parts And  to   Captn 

John  Cranston one  therd  part,  of   the  whole   debt  and 

damages due  to  me  from  the  Estate  of  George  Bliss  of 

Newport 

unto   my   Sister  Kathrine   Cooks   Children   to  be   paid 

within  a  yeare  and  a  day  after  my  decease   (if  demanded) 

twenty  pounds  in  stock  at  Currant  prices 

unto  my  Sister  Christian  Sandys  children  tenn  pounds 

in  stock 

unto  mr  George  Shove five  pound  in  Currant  Cun- 

try  pay : 

unto  my  Grand  Childe  John  Poole tenn  pounds  in 

Catle  at  Currant  price. 

unto  Seath  Shove twenty  shillings  in  currant  cun- 

try  pay. 

unto  Elizabeth  Shove Twenty  Shillings 

unto  James  Bell  of  Tanton forty  shillings 

unto  John  Winchcombe five  pound 

unto  Michall    Kaly   two   therds — and    to   his    wife    one 

therd  of  fifteen  pounds  due  from  him  to  me  for  Land  granted 
to  him  at  Pettacomscutt. 

unto  Rachill  Wilkison a  young  cow  or  a  two  yeare 

old  heiffer  at  Mattapoissett  and  five  pounds  in  Currant  Cun- 
try  pay. 

unto  my  Negro  Abraham  four  pounds 

unto  my  Negro  Antonia  forty  shillings 

unto  my  Negro  Rose  therty  shillings 

unto  my  Negro  Zipporah  twenty  Shillings 

unto  my  Negro  Samson  tweny  shills 

unto  my  Indian  Edom  twenty  shillings 

Remainder  of  my  Estate to  be  devided  between  all 

my  children in  case  my negros  Abraham  and  Anto- 
nia  demeane  themselves obedient at  the  Ex- 
piration of  five  yeares  after  my  decease  be  sett  free, and 

shall  give them  five  pounds. 


63 

unto  mr  Roger  Williams  of  Providence  twelve  Ewes  or 

Ewe  lambs  and  a  wether  sheep. 

appoint my son    in    law    mr    Peleg    Sanford, 

Captn  John  Cranston  and  mr  George  Shove my  Over- 
seers,   unto  each  of  them Five  pounds 

Ninth  day  of  February  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy 
and  three.  William  Brenton 

Signed 

William  Harvey. 
Georg  Macey 
John  Richmond 
Newport 13th  day  of  November  1674 appeared  be- 
fore   me    William    Harvey    George    Masey   and   John    Rich- 
mond. .  .  . . 

William  Coddington  Govr. 
[84]     Inventory  of  William  Brentons  Estate. 

f armes   and   houses   at   Hamer-smith   in       £      sh.    ds. 

posession  of  John  Rathbon,  and  Lands 

and  the  stock given  to  my  son  Jahleel   —     2600 

farme  in  posession  of  William  Case  and 

stock given  to  my  son  William      —     iioo 

farme    and    houses    at    Mattapoisett    in 

posession   of   Jared   Bourne   senr.   and    stock 

given  unto  my  son  Ebinezar  —     —    —     1150 

farme     and     houses     in     posession     of 

Michall  Kaly  and stock given  to  my 

Daughter   Sarah         —    —    —    —    —    —       650 

farme  formerly  in  posession  of  mr  John 

Gard  deceased  and Land  on  Quononoqt. 

with     stock given     unto     my     Daughter 

Mehetabell   —    —    —    —    —    —    —    —      650 

farme  and  houses  bought  of  mr  Elisha 

Hutchinson — and  farme  called  Bakers  farme 

and  stock  given  unto  my  Daughter  Abigail  —       600 

houses  Land  &  wharf e  in  Newport     —     1200 

Land  at  Natticott  on  Merrimack  River       800 

260  acres Land  in  the  North  part 


64 

£       sh.  ds. 

of    Quononogutt         —    —    —    —     —    —  300 

houses  and  Land  in Tanton  —     —  300 

my  Intrest  in land  at  Narragansett 

and   Pettacomscutt       —    —    —     —     —    —  300 

part  of  Elizabeth  Islands       —    —    —        40 

70  horses  and  mares  young  and  old 

besides  what  is  dispossed  of  by  my  Will  3li 

head      —     —     —     —     —     —     —     —     —  210 

34   head   of    Cattell   in   custody   of    my 

teeneants at  3li  head —    —    —    —    —  102 

1 100  sheep  in  the  hands  of  my  Tennants 

at  61i  13.3  4      ______  366     13       4 

my  quarter  part  of  the  Ketch  dove     —  150 

my  therd  part  of  the  Ketch  Industry    —         50 

all  my  house-hold  goods       —    —    —  200 

Tottall  is     —  10768  .  13       4 
Wit. — 20th  of  August  1674 

William  Harvey  William  Brenton. 

John  Winchcombe 

[85]     William     Brenton     Esqur.     of Newport late 

deceassed     (in Tanton ) in    his Will 

appointed his  son  Jahleel  Executor,  and  Peleg  Sanford 

Guardian I   doe   hereby  give   full   power unto 

Jahleel  Brenton  and  Peleg  Sanford ninth  day  of  Decem- 
ber 1674 

William  Coddington  Go. 
[85]     John  Anthony  to  Richard  Tew. 

4th    day 8th    month    1642 John    Anthony    of 

Portsmouth Planter have sold      unto      Richard 

Tew of  Newport three  percells  of  Land within 

the  bounds   of   Newport Eastward    from   Newport   Mill 

within  a  tract  of  Land  called  the  great  inclosure, Fifty 

acres Fourty  of  it  was  given  me  by  Towne  Grant  tenn 

given  me  as  beinge  a  servant  at  my  first  cominge  bounded  on 
the  Nor  by  the  Comon  or  hie-way  to  Sachuest,  on  the  west 
by  the  high-way  to  Sachuest,  on  the  South  by  the  Land  of 
Nicholas  Easton,  on  the  East  by  the  river  called  Maidford 


6s 

river,  alsoe  one  percdl  of  Salt  Marsh  lyinge  at  the  West  end 

of    Sachuest   Marshes  containinge   Eight   acres bounded 

South-East  and  Nor  with  the  naturall  water  bounds,  on  the 
West  by  the  high-way  on  the  beach  leading  to  Sachuest 
Comon,  alsoe  an  other  percell  of  salt  marsh  lyinge  on  the 

other  side  of  the  water  Eastward  called Lubbars  pound 

contaninge  about  one  acre  and  a  halfe,  bounded   East  and 

West  by  the  great  Rocks,  on  the  south  by the  water. .... 

^.^  John  Anthoni 

Susanah  X  Anthony 
her  marke 

Joseph  Lad 
[86]     John  Lay  ton  to  Richard  Tew. 

John  Layton  of  Newport  have  sold  to  Richard  Tew 

30  acres Lyinge within  the  situa  The  Land  of  John 

Peckham  on  the  north  side  Maidford  river  on  the  East  the 

hie-way  South  and  West  6ei.i34  to  be  paid one  halfe 

in  hand  the  other  at  May, which  will  be 1643  then 

to  be  paid  in  swine as  two  men  Shall  prize  them 

^j^  The  marke  X  of  John  Lation 

James  Weeden  Ri<^hard  Tew 

Henry  Tew — Land  Recorded. 
...Henry  Tew   (sonn  and  heire  of  Richard  Tew  late)  of 

* '  * '  '.Newport (deceassed) two percells of 

Land  lyinge within Newport Eighty  Acres 

bounded the  one  percell  North  by  the  hie-way  East  by 

Maidford  alias  Stony  river  South  by  land  in  the  posession  of 
Mathew  Boomer,  West  partly  by  the  hie-way  and  partly  by 
lands  in  the  posession  of  Mathew  Boomer  and  Peter  Easton, 
the   other  percell   is  bounded   North   by   the   Land   of   John 

Peckham   senr.   East  by  the Maidford   river   south  and 

west  by  the  hie-way  which two  percells were  pur- 

chassed  by Richard  Tew  of  John  Anthony  and  John  Lay- 
ton with     all     mansion     houses,     Barnes, fenceings, 

Orchards,  Gardens According  to  a  Law  made  the  22th 

of    May    1662   promisses   are   hereby   Ratified Recorded 

15th  day  of  January 1674  t  1      c     r     ^ 

^  John  Sanford. 


66 

[87]     James  Barker  to  Richard  Tew. 

James  Barker  of Newport  Yeoman have 

sold  unto  Richard  Tew  of same  Towne  yeoman,  one  per- 

cell  of  Salt  Marsh  lyinge  on  the  East  side  the  hie-way  to 
Sachuest.  bounde  on  the  South  by  the  land  of  Owin  Williams 

on  the  East  by  Richard  Tew  on  the  north  by  the  River 

two  Acres 

Wit.  James  Barker 

William  Waight 

John  Cotterill 

Thomas  Painter  to  Richard  Tew. 

Thomas  Painter in  Newport for sum 

Received    of    Richard    Tew in    Newport have    sold 

my  now  dwellinge-house  and  the  halfe  Acre  of  Land 

belonginge  on  which  it  stands, granted  by  the  free- 
men of   Newport  to   Edward  Andrews bounded  on  the 

West  by  Maidford  River,  and  on  all  other  sides  by  the  Comon, 
together  with  a  percell  of  Marsh  lying  neere  Sachuest  beach, 
bounded  on  the  South  by  the  Comon  beach,  on  the  East  by 
John    Crandells    Marsh    Northerly   by   the   river   or    chanell, 

Westerly  by  the  beach,  both percells  I  bought  of  Owin 

Williams Eleventh  day  of  March 1663  or  1664 

Wit.  The  marke  of  Thomas  X  Painter 

Thomas  Harris  Junr. 

Marke  Lucar 
[84]     William  Jefiferays  Will 

William   Jefferay    of    Newport Gent unto    my 

Eldist  daughter   Mary  Greene  the  wife  of  John  Greene  of 

Newport Lands /beinge    in    Blackman    Street    neere 

the  Citty  ot  London  which  Lands were  given  me  by 

my  Mother  Audry  Jefferay  late  of  Chittingly  in Sussex 

which  Lands  are  now,  out  at  lease  to Tennants   which 

pay  rent  iSth a  sufficient  part  reserved  for my  wife 

Mary  Jefferay unto  my   sonn   Thomas   Jefferay   all   the 

remainder  of  my  Estate  in  Old  England unto  my  daugh- 
ter Sarah  the   wife  of   James   Barker   of    Newport five 

pounds   in   silver unto   my  two   daughters   Priscilla   and 


67 

Susannah  Jefferay  all  my  Land  and  houseinge 25  acres 

lyinge in Newport Constitute   my   Daugh- 
ter Mary  Greene  my  Executrix my  wifs  two  Breatheren 

John  and  Danill  Gould  over-seers Eight  day  of  Decem- 
ber 1674 
Wit.     Edward  Greenman  William  Jefferay 

John  Salmon 
[85]     Cagananaquoant  to  William  Coddington. 

Newport Aprill  17th  1657 Caganaquoant  Indian  and 

a  Cheife  Sachim  and  Comandar  of  the  Indians  of  Narragan- 

sitt  and  Quononaqutt  Island for Gifts received 

and     for one    hundred    pounds     Sterlling doe 

make sale     of the     Island     Quononaqutt 

unto  William  Coddington  Esquire  &  Benedict  Arnold  (senior) 

Both  of  Newport 

Wit,  Caganaqutt  X  his  marke 

Fra :  Brinley 

Hugh  Bewitt 

Mattackis  X   (alias)  Newcome. 
his  marke 
[86]     Cachanaquoant  to  Benedict  Arnold. 

Cachanaquoant   a   chief    sachem   and   comander   of    all 

Indians    of    Narragansitt    and    Quononaqutt    Island for 

Twenty  pound  sterlinge  in  good  peage  and  Cloth 

received doe deliver  unto  Benedict  Arnold  of  New- 
port  a    small    Island    called Acquedneessuck :    or   in 

the  English  Island,  which  is in  the  Bay  of  Narragansitt 

neere unto    & upon    the    West    side    of    the    Island 

called  Quononaqutt which  I  sold 17th  of  Aprill  one 

Thowsand  Six  hundred  Fifty  seven 22th  day  of  May  in 

1658  at  Warwick 

Wit.  Cachanaquoant  X  his  marke 

James  X  Sweete 
his  marke 

X  Awashaws 
the  marke  of 
the  X  marke  of 


68 

Wamppapawgat  alias 
Neesoalkagg. 

Caskottape  to  Wm.  Coddington. 

Caskottape  and  Wequaquaniutt  cheife   Sachims  of   the 

Nanhigansetts    Quntry    and    owners    of    Qinoniquocke    and 

Aquidnesicke  Islands doe sell unto  mr.  Randall 

Houlden   William   Coddington   Esquire   mr   Benedict   Arnold 

and  mr  William  Brenton, for  one  hundred  and  fifty  and 

five  pounds  in  peage i8th  of  July  1659 

Wit.  Caskottape  X  his  marke 

Walter  Todd  his  X  marke 

his  X  marke  Wequaquinuit 

John  Smith  Masson 

The  X  marke  off 

Sankhequahim 

John  Sassumon 

house  X 
his  marke 

the  X  marke 
of  moake 

the  X  marke 
of  Weskonssas 

the  X  marke  of 
Potucke 
[87]     Quisaquance  to  William  Brenton. 
Warwick  the  25  of  July  1659 

Quisaquance  Cheife  Sachim  of  the  Nankygansett,  have 

sold two-Islands  of  Quononoqutt  and  Aquednessett 

unto  mr  William  Brenton  mr  William  Coddington  mr  Benedict 

Arnold  mr  Richard  Smith  senr  and  Caleb  Carr for 

sixty  pounds 

Wit.  The  marke  of  X 

Thomas  Greene  Quisaquance 

the  marke  of  X  William  Eaton 
the  marke  of  X  Awashouse 
the  marke  of  X  Saukequaskne. 


69 

Randall  Howldon  to  Benedict  Arnold. 

Randall    Howldon    of    Warwick have    received    of 

Benedict  Arnold  of   Newport  and  mr  Brenton  of  the  same 

one    hundred    fifty    five    pound    in    peage    &    for    the 

two  Sachims  Wequaganuett  and  Kaskatape  and  sixty  pounds 

for    Quissuckquansh    the    Cheife    Sachim for Quo- 

nonaqutt  and  the  Island  called  Dutch  Island alsoe 

have  Received  for  all  my Troubles about  the  prem- 
isses made  to other  Indians  as  House  and  the  rest 

one  hundred  Thirty  and  six  pounds  Eighteene  Shillings  and 

Eleaven  pence at  the   rate  of   peage   Six  a  penny 

23th  of  March  1659 


1660 
Wit.  X  me  Randall  Howldon 

Gregory  Dexter 

William  X  Vahan 
[88]     Towasibbam  to  William  Brenton 

Towasibbam  Indian petty  sachim  of  Quononaqutt, 

have  for Five  pound  sterlinge  in  peage given 

my apro'bation    for    the    posession    of Quononaqutt 

Island  as  Sold  by  the  cheife-sachims  of  Narragansett  unto  mr 
William  Brenton,   mr  Coddington,   Benedict   Arnold   and   all 

purchassers of  said  Island  and  Dutch  Island 

the five  pounds Received one  halfe  of  mr  Bren- 
ton and  the  other  of  Benedict  Arnold 24th  January  1660. 

Wit.  Towasibbam     his 

John  Cranston  X 

Peleg  Sanford  marke 

Benedict  Arnold  Jur. 
mem.     Towasibbam  22  s.  &  6  d.  more  in  peage  afterwards 

besids,  the  five  pounds 

[89]     John  Crandall  to  John  Crandall 

John  Crandall  senior unto sonn  John  Crandall 

of  Newport have  given all my  goods,  Chattells, 

Debts,  household   stufif and have  putt   my sonn 

in posession   of   all premisses   by  the   delivery  unto 


70 

him  of  one  shilling  in   silver  currant  mony of   England 

Third  day  of  October 1670 

Wit.  John  Crandall 

William  Weeden 
Richard  Baily 

Walter  Clarke  to  William  Brenton. 

1657 seventeenth  day  of  May Between  Walter 

Clarke  of  Newport and  William  Brenton  of  Boston  Mer- 
chant  Walter  Clarke  was  posessed of   Land as 

heire to  his Father  Jeremiah  Clarke and  in- 
stated  in   them   by   his   mother (now    wife   to    William 

Vahan) one  percell lyinge  in  Newport,  between  the 

streets  and  the  sea  or  harbour bounded  on  the  West  side 

by  the   sea   or  harbour,   on  the   south  by  the   land   of 

William  Brenton  lately  purchased  of  Jeffery  Champlin,  on  the 
East  side  by  the  streete,  and  on  the  north  end  by  the  Land  of 
John  Cranston,  which  is  one  pole  or  pearch  broad,  &  the 
north  side  there  of  is  to  run  upon  a  due  range,  answeringe  to 
the  line  hedg  or  fence  which  is  upon  the  end  of  the  Orchard 

of  Walter  Clarke  soe  that  the Land  is  bounded  just  one 

pole  bredth  within  the Range,  exceptinge  from  the  west 

side  of  the  two  graves  unto  the  streete  on  the  East  side 

with  an  other  percell  of  Land  lyinge  at  the  East  end  of  the 
said  William  Brentons  Land  beinge  the  house  Lott  of  Jeffery 

Champlin    lately    purchassed    by William    Brenton 

which Land  is  bounded,  on  the  West  side  partly  by  the 

said  Lott  soe  farr  as  the  marks  upon  the  fence  Stands 

partly  upon  the  Land  of  Robert  Carr,  and  partly  by  the  Land 
of  Benedict  Arnold  and  upon  the  South  Side  is  bounded  upon 
the  way  leads  up  to  the  highest  percell  of  Land  bought  of 
the  said  Jeffery   (to  which  the  said  way  of  two  poles  wide 

from    the    streete    was impropriated) on    the    east 

bounded  by  the  Land  last  mentioned  and  on  the  North  side  by 
the  land  of  the  said  Walter, which Land Wal- 
ter  doth sell unto the  said  William 

Wit.  Walter  Clarke 

William  Baulston 


71 

the  marke  of  X 

William  Vahan 

Will.  Dyre 

as  Guardians  to  the  said  Walter 

doe  confirme Deed  of  Sale 

John  Cranston 
James  Barker 
[91]     Richard  Sisson  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

Twenty   fourth   day   of    September one    Thowsand 

six  hundred  and  sixty Richard  Sisson  of  Portsmouth  on 

Rhode  Island Hath sold  unto  Peleg  Sanford  of 

Portsmouth  all  right in  Quononoqutt  Island  and  Dutch 

Island,  which  was  his  owne  share  and  two  Three  hundreth 

shares,  which  he bought   of   William  Hall  and  Thomas, 

Manchester 

Wit.  Richard  X  Sisson 

John  Sanford  his  marke 

Samuell  Sanford 

Thomas  Manchester  to  Richard  Sisson. 

Thomas    Manchester   of    Portsmouth   in    Rhode    Island 

Have  sold unto  Richard  Sisson  of  the  same  Towne 

one  Three  hundreth  part  of   Quononoqutt  Island 

with  one  three  hundreth  part  of  Dutch-Island sixt  day 

of  July One  Thowsand  six  hundred  fifty  and  eight. 

Wit.  The  marke  of 

John  X  Roome  Thomas  X  Manchester 

his  marke 

Ralph  X  Earll  junr. 
his  marke 

William  Hall 
[92]     William  Hall  to  Richard  Sisson. 

William   Hall  of   Portsmouth  in  Rhode-Island doe 

sell  unto  Richard  Sisson  of  same  Towne one  three 

hundred  part  of Quononoqutt, with  one  three  hun- 
dred   part    of    Dutch-Island, sixt    day    of    July one 

Thowsand  six  hundred  fifty  and  Eight 


Wit.  William  Hall 

John  X  Roome 
his  marke 
.    Thomas  X  Manchester 
his  marke 

Ralph  X  Earll  junr 
his  marke 

Thomas  Mumford  to  Peleg  Sanford 

Thomas     Mumford    of     Pettacomscutt and     Sarah 

Mumford  his  wife  for Twenty  five  pounds  currant  pay 

of  New  England paid  by  Peleg  Sanford  of  Newport 

doe sell One  Thowsand  Acres  of  Upland  and  Med- 

dow which is    lyinge within    the limitts    of 

the    Purchass    of    Pettacomscutt.  .  .Fifteenth    day   of    March 

1667 

Wit,  Thomas  Mumford 

Walter  Clarke 

Jireh  Bull 
[94]     William  Brenton  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

25th  day  of  March  1670 William  Brenton  of 

Tanton Collony    of     New-Plymoth    Esqr give 

unto  my  sonn  in  law  mr  Peleg  Sanford of  Newport 

one     peece of     Land in Newport bounded 

on  the  East  by  the  hie-way  or  Strand  Street  soe  called, 

and  North  upon  the  Land  of  Captn  John  Cranston,  and  is  to 

Extend    from   the    Southward    part    of Cranston    Land 

adjoyninge  upon  the Strand    Street    or  high- way  three 

Compleate  Rodds   and    soe   to    Runn    downe  upon   a   direct 
straight  line  into  the  sea  or  harbour  and  westerly  to  runn  into 

the sea  or  harbour  soe  farr  as  my  intrest  title  there  in  is 

25th  of  March 1670 

Wit.  William  Brenton 

Elizabeth  Brenton 

John  Winchcombe 
Boston  July  3th  1702 

John  Winchcombe before  me  one  of  her  Majtty  Jus- 
tice of  ye  peace did  see  mr  William  Brenton  signe 

Jury  Corom 


73 

Aron  Davis  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

five  and   twentith    day   of    February 1672  73 

Aron    Davis    of    Newport Mason,    have    for 

twelve  acres  and  a  halfe within Newport to  me 

gi anted  made  over  and  Delivered;  Bargained, and  de- 
livered  up  to   Peleg   Sanford   of Newport   Merchant,    a 

certaine  percell containinge  Fifteene  acres in  New- 
port  bounded  on  the  East  end  by  the  Comon  and  on  the 

west  end  by  land  lately  belonginge  to  Tho.  Watterman  on  the 
North  side  partly  by  the  Land  of  John  Vahan  and  part  on  the 
Comon,  and  on  the  South  side  by  Land  belonginge  to  William 

Brenton    Esqr.    which Land with    all    houses 

Orchards Gardens, doe bargaine, and    deliver 

up  unto Peleg  Sanford the  same and  doe 

acquitt Peleg      Sanford for     the     above-mentioned 

twelve    acres     and    halfe    of     Land acknowlidging    the 

Receipt  thereof, 

Wit.  Aron  Davis. 

Hugh  Mosher 
John  Greene 
Edward  Richmond 
Aron  Davis  upon  the  14th  of  Aprill  1674  acknowlidged  the 
above-written  Nich.  Easton  Gov. 

Mary    Davis Declared she asented 

unto  the  act  of  her  husband 

The  marke  of 
Mary  X  Davis 
[95]     Thomas  Waterman  to 

Power  and  twentith  day  of  February 1672-73 

Thomas  Waterman  of  Aquidnessett Weaver,  have  with 

the consent of    my    wife    Hannah    Waterman,    For 

five  and  thirty  pounds  sterllinge paid sold 

unto  Peleg  Sanford   of   Newport tenn  acres within 

Newport bounded    on   the   East   by   land   of   Aron 

Davis  and  on  the  West  part  on  the  hie-way  and  part  on  the 
Land  of  Robert  Moone,  and  on  the  North  by  the  Comon,  and 


74 

on  the  South  part  by  the  Land  of  William  Brenton  Esqr 

pt  on  the  Land  of  the  said  Robt  Moone 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Waterman 

John  Co.£^geshall  Senr  his  marke 

Caleb  Carr 

The  24th  da.  of  February  1672 Thomas  Waterman 

did  acknowlidge John  Cranston  Dept  Gov. 

[96]     William  Brenton  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

William  Brenton  of  Newpt Esquire  Now  Resident 

in   the   Towne   of   Tanton for one  hundred   pounds 

sterlling-  currant  pay of  Rhode  Island paid  unto  me 

by    Peleg    Sanford    of Newport have    sold all 

that   percell    share beinge   in Newport contayn- 

inge  Twenty  Five  Acres bounded North  or  north- 
erly upon  the  Land  of  Peleg  Sanford  lately  purchassed  of 
Aron  Davis,  and  the  Land  of  Robert  Moone.  East  or  East- 
erly upon  the  Comon,  South  or  Southerly  upon  the  Land  of 

Joseph  Card  and  West  or  Westerly  upon  the  high-way, 

To  be  holden  of  his  Majtie  as  of  his  manner  of  East  Green- 
wich  Twenty  fifth  day  of  September 1674 

Wit.  William  Brenton. 

John  Almy 

Jahleel  Brenton 
[97]     freemen  of  Newport  to  John  Sanford. 

at  a  quarter  meetinge  of  the  free-men  of Newport 

thirtith  of  Aprill,   one  Thowsand  six  hundred   Seventy 

and  three,  Wee.  .  .for Four  pounds  fifteene  shillings  and 

Eight  pence paid by  mr  John  Sanford  of  Ports- 
mouth  have  sold a  peece  of  Land  lyinge in 

Newport Containinge   foure  Rods   square,   and   bounded 

on  the  South by  land  now  or  late  in  the  posession 

of  John  Odlin,  on  the  West by  the  Land  lately  sold  by 

the  Towne  to  Peleg  Sanford,  on  the  north by  a  hie-way 

of  two  Rods  wide,  on  the  East by  the  broad  street  or 

Comon   Roade Given  under   my  hand 29th   day   of 

September  1674 


75 

Wit.  Weston  Clarke 

Nicholas  Carr  Towne  Gierke. 

John  Odlin 

free-men  of  Newport  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

the  free-men of  Newport the  twenty  Eight  day 

of  January  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  and  three 

for Five  pounds  currant  pay  paid  unto  Captn  Richard 

Morris  up  the  account  of  the free-men Have 

sold unto Peleg    Sanford Land    lyinge    in 

Newport Containinge   Foure   Rods    Square bounded 

on  the  south by  Land  lately  sold  by  the  Towne  to 

John  Odlin  on  the  West by  the  Comon  or  hie- way  on 

the  North by  A  hie-way  of  two  Rods  wide  between  the 

said  Land  and  the  Land  of  Edward  Thurston  on  the  East 

by  Land  now  or  late  in  the  posession  of  John  Sanford 

These  are  by  an  order  of  the  free-men  made  the  thirtith  of 

July   1673 to  confirme  unto Peleg   Sanford the 

Land  above-mentioned twenty  Ninth  day  of   September 

1674 

Wit.  Weston  Clarke  Towne  Clerke 

Nicholas  Carr 

John  Odlin. 
[98]     John  Sanford  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

John  Sanford  of  Portsmouth for seven  pounds 

Sterll — currant   pay   of    the    Collony paid    unto    me    by 

Peleg  Sanford  of  Newport doe, sell, Land 

Lyinge in Newport beinge     four     Rod     square 

bounded on  the  South by  the  land  now  or  late 

in  the  posession  of  John  Odlin,  on  the  West by  the  land 

lately  sold  by  the  Townesmen  of  Newport  unto  Peleg  San- 
ford on  the  North by  a  hie-way  of  two  Rods  wide  on  the 

East by    the    broad    street    that    goeth    downe    the 

Towne second  day  of  February 1674 

Wit.  John  Sanford 

Francis  Brimley 

Caleb  Carr 

Covinnant  betweene  Peter  Easton  and  Henry  Stevens 


76 

Anno.  Dom.  1652  October  the  13th. 

there  is  a  Covinnant  Betwene  Peter  Easton  and  Henry 

Stevens  both  of Newport Henry  hath  bought  a  per- 

cell  of   Land  of Peter  boundinge   on   Richard  Tew   his 

Land  on  the  North  side  and  east  end,  and  on  the  said  Peters 
Land  on  the  south  twenty  pole  wide  from  Richard  Tew  and 

bounds  on  the  hie  way  at  the  West  end, Henry  Stevens 

doth    Engage    himself e to maintaine    such    a    fence 

round    that Land,    as    may    Secure Peter from 

any  Cattell  that  may pass  thereby,  and  Consideringe  there 

is  twenty  pole  at  the  East  and  which  Richard  Tew  is  to 

maintaine   for  a  percell   of   Land Richard   had   of 

Peter    Henry    doth    Engage    himself e to maintaine 

twenty    rod    for Peter    in    an    other    place,    Peter    hath 

alowed  Henry  18  months  after  the  date  hereof  before  he 
make  it,  there  is  likewise  a  ditch  on  North  side  of  this  Land 
alredy  made  for  which  ditch  Henry  doth  Engage  himselfe  to 
make  as  many  Rods  of  Ditch  in  an  other  Convenient  place 
where  Peter  shall  appoint  him,  within  eighteene  months  after 

the  date  hereof 

Wit.  Peter  Easton 

Richard  Knight  Henry  Stevens 

John  Shelden 
[99]       Indenture  between  Owin  Williams  and  Mathew  Boomer 

Indenture  made  the  twentith  day  of   May sixteen 

hundred   fifty   and    Eight Owen   Williams    off   Newport 

have made  over  unto  Mathew  Boomer  of  the  same 

place Land  beinge  the  one  Moyety  or  halfe  a  percell  of 

Land  by  me  bought  of  mr  James  Barker the  north  part 

thereof  beinge  in  bredth  fifteen  poles  north  and  south,  and  in 

length  twenty   one  pole   and   six   foott   East  and   west 

Mathew    Boomer    doth binde    himselfe alwaies    to 

maintaine  a fence in  the  line  on  the  North  side 

of  the  whole  length against  the  land  of  mr  Barker,  like- 
wise  on  the  east  end  thereof  the  whole  length  of  that 

moyety  against  the  land  of  mr  Barker, two  pole  and  five 

foot  of  fence  adjoyninge  to  the  north  end  of  the  fence  at  the 


west  end  of  this  moyety  against  the  Land  of  mr  Barker  so 
that  noe  Trespass  or  damage  may  at  any  time  come  to  him 

and  if  any  damage  be  thereby  to  pay  full  Value  of  it 

the  moyety when  it  shall  be  devided  the  partition  fence 

Boomer  shall  make the   West   halfe   which   is  next   the 

hie-way  and  Williams the   east  halfe   next   mr   Barkers 

Land 

Wit.  Owin  Williams 

James  Barker 

Marke  Lucas 

John  Sayles  to  Stephen  Arnold. 

John    Sayles    of    Providence Have sold    unto 

Stephen  Arnold  of  Pawtuxett one  hundreth  twenty  five 

acres    of    upland scittuated    within Pawtuxett 

which was     formerly    bought    by John     Sayles    of 

Thomas    Slow    now    of Providence,    which Thomas 

Slow  formerly  bought  of  John  Greene  now  of Warwick 

bounded   northwardly   with    the   meddows    of    Richard 

Watterman,  Roger  Williams,  William  Arnold,  William  Car- 
penter, And   South  East  with  the meddow   of  the   said 

John  Sayles   (which  he  bought  with the  upland  of 

Thomas  Slow,  and  on  the  South  with  upland  (now  Comon) 

John  Sayles shall  have   free  Cartage  of  hay  from 

his meddow   through   the one  hundreth  twenty  five 

acres  of  upland fourteenth  day  of  August  1659 

Wit.  Jno  Sayles 

Resolved  Waterman 

Henry  Reddocke 
Henry  X  Pollers  marke 

Robert  Williams 
[looj     William  Arnold  to  Stephen  Arnold. 

William    Arnold of    Pawtuxet doe    give 

unto    my    sonn    Stephen    Arnold a    percell    of    meddow 

which  was  of  a  share  formerly  layd  out  unto  Thomas  Olney, 

the  which  I  bought  of  him lyeth  on  the  North  Side  of 

the Pawtuxett  River,  and  is  bounded  on  the  South  with 

the   said   River  and  on  the  West   with   Papaquinepoag  and 


78 

Mashepog   River   and   the   North   and    North   east   with   the 

Comon,  And  alsoe an  acre  and  halfe  of  Land  where  his 

house  and  houseinf^e  standith and  alsoe  my  share in 

the  Island  called  the  Viniard  which  is  on  the  North  side  of 
Pawtuxett  River,  by  his  meddow  and  land  Runninge  Round 
most  part  of  it,  And  alsoe Land  upon  the  Neck  in  quan- 
tity Soe  many  acres  as  is  contayned  in  any  one  of  the  Lotts 

layd  out  by  the  thirteen  in  the  same  Neck  of  Land  from 

Pawtuxett  Falls  Northward  and  the  said  Lands  is  next 
adjoyninge  on  the  North  Side  of  the  afore-said  Lotts  and  it 
is  bounded  with  the  affore-said  Lotts  on  the  South  side  and 
on  the  North  side  with  land  now  in  the  hand  and  use  of 
Zacheriah  Rhoades  on  the  West  a  Swamp,  on  the  East  with 
the  Salt  watter  and  Watermans  Meddow  and  it  is  Six  acres 

fourth  day  of  Aprill 1663. 

Wit.  William  Arnold. 

Zachery  Roades 

The  marke  ofif  X  William  Ward 

Zachery  Roades  to  Stephen  Arnold. 
This  i8th  of  Aprill  1663 

Zachery   Roades of    Pawtuxett doe grant, 

unto  Stephen  Arnold  of Pawtuxett one  hun- 
dred acres  of  Land  which Lyeth on  the  North  side 

of  Pawtuxett  River 

Wit.  Zachary  Roades 

John  Sheldon 

John  Piner 
[loi]     Naw-naw-nanten-new  to  Stephen  Arnold. 

Naw-naw-nantennew-alias-Qua-noanck-hett    the    Eldist- 

sonn  now  liveinge  of   Myantenomye  my  father   and  that  he 

was  the  chief e-Sachim  of  the   Nanegansett  bay and  all 

the  Teretoryes belonginge.  And  by  power I  am  the 

cheife  survivinge  sachim doe pass  over  unto  Stephen 

Arnold of  Pawtuxett Land  lyinge on  the  south 

side  of  Pawtuxett  River the River  boundinge  it  on 

the  North  from  Pawtuxett  Falls  unto  the  furthest  Wadeinge 
place  in  the  River  at  Taskaunkenett  on  the  west  and  from 


79 

thence  bounded  on  the  south  side  with  a  straight  Hne  run- 
nino^e  East  and  by  South  unto  the  salt  watter  and  from  thence 
bounded  on  the  East  with  the  salt  watter  unto   Pawtuxett 

Falls T  doe  ratefy any  former  grant past  over 

unto  Benedict  Arnold  Either  by  my  father or  Sockcan- 

nanacow  Sachim  of  the  Pawtuxett,  alsoe  I Ratefy 

all Land  that  Kekettawekett  late  sachim  of Paw- 
tuxett deceased  past  over  unto  him  by  a  grant bearinge 

date  the  Twelfth  day  of  March one  Thowsand  six  hun- 
dred and   sixty, Thirty  day  of  July one  Thousand 

six  hundred  seventy  and  four 

Wit.  the  marke  off 

Samuell  Winsor  Naw-Naw  X  noantennew 

William  Hopkins  alias  Quanochchhett 

Richard  Everhden. 

John  Cranston  to  Caleb  Carr. 

John  Cranston  of  Newport phisician for 

money paid by    Caleb    Carr    of    Newport have 

sold one  halfe   of   the   Island   called Goulds   Island 

alias  Acqueebenawquck  lyinge in  Narragansett  Bay 

one  and  twentith  day  of  Aprill 1675. 

Wit.  Jon.  Cranston 

Sampson  X  Battee 
his  marke 

Richard  Baily. 
[102]     Nicholas  Easton  to  James  Barker. 

Nicholas     Easton     of     Newport Senior James 

Barker   of    Newport senior   did   about   five   and   twenty 

years  since,  grant  unto  me a house  lott  lyinge 

in  the  said  Towne,  which house  lott  did  formerly  belong 

unto  Robert  Feild  and  is  now  in  my  posession doe 

grant unto  James   Barker Land   lyinge in 

Newport bounded on    the    North    by   land    now    or 

late  in  the  posession   of   Richard  Tew on  the  East  by 

Stony  river  and  on  the  West  and  south  by  the  farme  of  me 

beinge  about  fourscore  Rod  in  length,  and  twenty  Rod 

in  breadth containinge ten  acres and  is  now  in 


8o 

the  posession  of  Mathew   Boomer one  and  thirtith  day 

of  December 1674 

Wit.  Nicholas  Easton 

John  Cranston 

Richard  Baily 
[103]     Connonicus  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

first  day  of  May sixteene  hundred  seventy  and  five 

Connonocus    formerly   called    Maussupp   cheife   sachim 

of    the    Narragansett    &c doe make    over unto 

Peleg  Sanford  of  Newport A  certaine  Island  (lyinge 

in Narragansett  Bay, by  the  Indian  Natives  is  called 

Connockenoquitt,  and  by  the  English  Rose  Island 

Wit.  The  marke  oflF. 

The  marke  X  of  Woodhemore  X 

The  marke  of  X  Assonquewitt  Connonicus 

The  marke  of  X  Sawonopansqutt 
These  are  witness  as  Councellers  to  the  Sachim  Connonicus 
English 

Richard  Knight 

John  X  Davis 
his  marke 

William  Dyre. 

Edward  Inman — Land  Recorded. 

Edward  Inman  now  or  later of  Providence glover^ 

beinge in posession     of Land     contaninge    five 

hundred  acres.  ...  .bounded  at  We-we-sampinsett,  and  from? 
thence  upon  a  streight  line  to  Uomstococonnet  and  from 
umstococonnett,  to  the  midle  of  a  great  seader  swamp,  to  a 
button  tree,  and  from  thence  runs  to  Pawtuckett  river,  almost 

North,  and  there  bounded,  by  a  Walnutt  Tree,  which 

Land  was  by Edward  Inman  purchassed  of  an  Indian- 
Called  William  Manannion, with  all  dwellinge  or  man- 
sion houses,  Barnes,  Orchards,  Gardens,  woods, accord- 
ing to  a  law  made  the  22th  of  May  1662 all prom- 
ises are Ratif yed to  be  the Title First  day 

of  May  1675: 

John  Sanford 


8i 

[104J     Joseph   Wise   to   Caleb   Lambe   &   Stephen   WiUiams 

Joseph   Wise   Senr of   Roxbury   in  the   county   of 

Suffolke for one  hundred  and  forty  pounds  sterlling 

paid by  Caleb  Lambe  and  Stephen  Williams  both 

of    Roxbury hath sold, one    halfe   of    a    farme 

of three  hundred  acres with  one  halfe  of  the 

housin,?e  out  housinge  and   fenceinge and  one  halfe  of 

every inclosure,   whether areaable   or  pasture- 
land The    said    farme lyinge    at    a   place called 

Neuticonquenett  within  the  bounds  of  Providence, 

and  is  bounded  Northerly  by  the  Land  of  William  Parke 
Westwardly  by  the  Comon  Southerly  by  Neuticonquenett 
river,  which  runs  between  the  Land  of  Arthur  Fenner  and  the 
said  Land  and  Eastwardly  by  the  Land  of  the  heires  of  Hugh 
Buett, sixth  day  of  January one  Thousand  six  hun- 
dred seventy  three. 
Wit.  Joseph  Wise  Senr 

Rhoda  Remington 

Jno.  Gore. 

Acknowledged  by  Joseph  Wise i8th  day  of  the  9  month 

1674  Thomas  Harris  Assistant 

[105]     John  Vaughan — Land  Recorded. 

John    Vaughan    junr of     Newport,    beinge in 

posession  of  a  percell  of  Land  Lyinge at  the  place 

called   Greene   End   within  the   Towne-shipp   of    New- 
port   Containeinge  Twelve  Acres bounded  North  by 

the   Land   of   mr   Francis   Brimley   East,   and   West   by   the 

Comon,  and  South  by  the  Land  of  mr  Peleg  Sanford 

with  all  dwellinge  houses,   Barnes, Gardings,   Orchards, 

according  to  a  Law  made  the  22th  of  May  1662 All 

Land. declared  Ratefyed Recorded  Fifteenth  day  of 

June  1675. 

John  Sanford 

William  Haviland  to  Robert  Malins. 

William  Havaland  of  Comhill  Bay  of  Flushing  in  the 

North    Rideinge of    New    Yorke    have    for Thirty 

pounds paid  by  Robert  Malins  of  Rhode-Island  in 


82 

Rhode-Island have  sold Land  lyinge  neere  to  a  place 

called  Pettacomscutt  bounded  as  on  the  North....  by  a  hie 

way  of  forty  rods  wide between  the  Land  of   (J)   Irith 

Bull  and  the  said  Land,  on  the  East by  a  River called 

Saquatuckett  River,  on  the  south by  land  not  yett 

dispossed  off,  on  the  West by  land  not  yett  dispossed  off 

four-hundred   Acres Twenty   third    day   of    Aprill 

one  Thousand  and  Six  hundred  seventy  and  five. 

Wit.  William  Haviland 

Thorn.  Hicks 

Providence  Williams 

Walter  Wood 

Weston  Clarke. 

Hannah   wife    of    William    Haviland Release 

my  Right  of  Dowry  thirds twenty  third  of  Aprill  1675 

Wit.  Hannah  X  Haviland 

Thomas  Hicks  her  marke 

Weston  Clarke 

Walter  Wood. 
[106]     John  Champlin  to  Peleg  Sanford. 

one  Thousand  six  hundred  seventy  and  five, Ninth 

day  of  Aprill John  Champlin  late  of  fyall  but  now 

of  Newport Merchant, Peleg  Sanford  of  the  same 

Towne Merchant, percell  of  Land twelve  foott 

in  bredth  beinge  the  proper  Land  of  John  Champlin to 

begin  at   the  west  end  of  the  out  kitchin  standing  within 

John  Champlins  land,  and  soe  upon  a  streight  lyne  to  runn 

west  southerly  unto  the  street  or  hie-way  that  runs 

North   and   South 12    foott   in   bredth   by  the   street   is 

bounded  by  land  in  the  posession  of  John  Champlin  on  the 
south  and  on  the  North  side  by  the  Land  of  Peleg  Sanford 

John    Champlin doth    make    over unto    Peleg 

Sanford in    Exchange of    land    containinge    twelve 

foott  in  bredth  lyinge in Newport abutts  at  the 

Eastern  end  twelve  foott  upon  the  West  side  of  the  afore- 
said street  and on  the  south  by  land  late  in  the  posession 

of  Willia  Brenton  Mercht  deceassed  and  on  the  North  by 


83 

Land  now  in  the  posession  of  Peleg  Sanford  and  soe  bearinge 

the  bredth  of  12  foott  extendeth  down  to  the  Sea  &c 

Wit.  John  Chimplyn 

Henry  Palmer 

WilHam  Dyre 

Henry  Palmer  aged  57  or  thereabout  &  William  Dyre 

aged  63  or  thereabouts testify  that  they  were  witnesses 

of  the  above  deed Walter  Clarke  Assistant. 

Thomas  Gould  to  William  Brenton. 

Eight  day  of  May  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy 

&  five Thomas  Gould  of  Aquednessett  did  in March 

in  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  sixty  and  four sell 

to  WilHam  Brenton  Esqr.  then  of  Newport the  three  hun- 

dreth  part  of  Quononoqutt  Island  and  Dutch  Island  for 

sixteen    pound which     percell was     formerly    pur- 

chassed  of  Thomas  Fish  of Portsmouth,  and  havinge  not 

here   to    fore   given William    Brenton any   deed    of 

sale which  Land William  Brenton did give 

to  his  daughter  Mary  the  then  wife  of  Peleg  Sanford  of 

Newport.  ...  .by  a  writeinge bearing  date  the  nin  (torn) 

June  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  sixty  and  six the  three 

hundreth  part  of  Quononaqutt  Island  and  Dutch  Island 

I doe disclaime all    Right thereto, and 

make  over to  Peleg  Sanford 

Wit.  Thomas  Gould. 

Jireh  Bull 

Edw.  Richmond. 
[107]     James  Barker  Senr. — Land  Recorded. 

James     Barker     Senior     of     Newport beinge.  . .  . 

Owner  By  vertue  of  Deed  of  Sale of  mr  Nicholas  Easton 

Senr of   Newport bearinge  date  the  one  and  Thir- 

tith   day   of   December 1674 of   Land Scittuate 

within  the Towne-shipp  of  Newport bounded  North 

by  Land  now  or  late  in  the  posession  of  Richard  Tew on 

the  East  by  Stony  River,  and  on  the  West  and  South  by  the 

farme  of Nicholas  Easton  beinge  about  Fourscore  Rod 

in  length,  and  Twenty  Rodd  in  bredth, Containinge 


84 

Tenn  Acres with  all Housis  out-housis Gardins 

Orchards, &c according  to  a  law  made  the  22th  of 

May  1662 all premisses  are Ratefyed Re- 
corded 3it  of  August 1675  • 

John  Sanford  Recorder. 

Peleg  Sanford  to  Caleb  Carr. 
Peleg    Sanford    of    Newport for full    satisfac- 
tion  Received    from    mr.    Caleb    Carr    of Newport 

senr.    Doe make  over one  halfe  part  of  Rose  Island, 

Eleventh  day  of  October 1675 

Wit.  Peleg  Sanford. 

The  X  marke  of 

Philip  Dodridge 

Michall  Coly. 
[108]     Thomas  Cornell — Land  Recorded. 

Thomas    Cornell    Eldist    son    to    the    late Thomas 

Cornell  Eldist  son  to  mr  Thomas  Cornell of  Portsmouth 

on  Rhode-Island By  Vertue  of  his  Granfather  and  Gran 

Mothers  wills  beinge in posession  of Land  Con- 

tayneing    one  hundred  acres Bounds Northward  by 

the  Land  of  Thomas  Hazard  &c  Eastward  by  the  Comon, 
Southward  by  the  Land  of  mr  Joshua  Coggeshall,  Westward 
by  the  Sea, with  all dwellinge  Houses,  Barnes,  build- 
ings  Gardins,  Orchards, This Record  according 

to  Law  made  22th  May  1662 all promises  Ratefyed 

Recorded  25th  day  of  January 1675 

John  Sanford  Recorder 

Richard  Tew  to  Seaborne  Billing. 

Richard    Tew of    Newport in    the    fourteenth 

yeare   of Charles   the    second give   unto   my   Eldist 

Daughter  Seaborn  Billing  Widdow  late  wife  of  Samuell  Bill- 
ing    deceased Land      lyinge      within Newport 

boundinge  as  followeth, on  the  west  part  by  the  Comon, 

on  the  South  by  the  Land  of  David  Akin,  on  the  East  by  the 
hie  waye,  on  the  North  by  the  land  that  was  latly  Samuells 


85 

now    deceased and   then     at    her   deseacease to   be 

devided  between  her.  . .  .  .Daughters  Amy  and  Mary 

Wit.  Richard  Tew 

WilHam  Rogers 

WilHam  Shattock 
[log]      Seaborn  Higgin — Land  Recorded. 

Seaborn  the  wife  of  Owin  Higgin  (late  Widow  to 

Samuell  Billinge) beinge in posession  of  Land 

lyinge within Newport Fifty  Acres bounded 

north  by  the  Comon  Eighty  Rod,  East  by  the  Comon  and  one 
hundred  and  twenty  Rodds,  south  by  the  Land  of  Jeremiah 
Clarke  one  hundred  and  Twenty  Rodds,  and  West  by  the 

Land  of  Thomas  Rogers  one  hundred  and  twenty  Rodds, 

with  all dwelling,  houses,  barnes, Gardens,  Orchards 

according  to  a  Law  made  the  22  of  May  1662 all 

Land    and    promisses are     Ratefied Recorded 

i6th  day  of  February  1675 : 

John  Sanford  Recorder 

Thomas  Wood  to  Richard  Tew. 

first   day  of   January one   Thowsand   six   hundred 

Fifty  seven ;  Thomas  Wood  of  Portsmouth  on  Rhode-Island 

hath sold unto  Richard  Tew  of  Newport 

Forty  Acres lyinge  within Newport which  Land 

was   freely  given by  the  Townsemen  of   Newport 

unto  John  Wood  of  Portsmouth lately  deceassed,  whoe 

dyinge  intestate  the land  was  given  to Thomas  Wood 

by  the  Towne  Councell  of  Portsmouth Viztt.  mr.  William 

Baulston,  mr  John  Roome,  mr  John   Briggs,  and  mr  Philip 

Shearman Land  is bounded  on  the  East,  West,  and 

North   by  the   Comon   on    the   South   by   William    Weedens 

Farme  beinge  Eighty  poles square 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Wood 

John  Sanford  his  marke. 

John  Anthony 

Samuell  Sanford 
[no]     Towne  order. 
The  Towne in a  former motion  made  the  Gov- 


86 

ernor.  Concerninge  some  monys  disburced,  by  him  and  John 
Green  Senr.  to  the  Indians  about  goat  Island  and  Coasters 

harbour have  appointed  mr  John  Coggeshall,  mr  Peter 

Easton  and  mr  Thomas  Ward, to  treat  with  the  Gov- 
ernor about  the  same.  That  soe  he  may  not  incuar  damage  by 
any  kindness  he  intended  to  doe  for  this  Towne Janu- 
ary 31  1671 

Weston  Clarke 
Town  Gierke 

Towne  order. 

There    was    appointed    mr   John    Coggeshall    mr   Peter 

Easton  and  mr  Thomas  Ward,  to  agree  with  mr  Benedict 
Arnold  senior  of  Newport,  about  Coasters  harbour  and  goate 

Island,   and   they  did   not   agree whereupon  the   Towne 

thought  fitt  to  ad  unto  them  mr  francis  Breinly,  mr  Caleb 

Carr,  and  mr  Jireh  Bull 30th  of  Aprill  1673 

Weston  Clarke 
Town  Gierke 

Benedict  Arnold  to  Towne  of  Newport. 

Wee Francis  Breinly  John  Coggeshall  Caleb  Carr  Thomas 

Ward     &    Jiereh     Bull .....  freemen     of Newport 

Beinge Nominated to   treat   with    Benedict    Arnold 

in    the Townes    behalf e    to    agree about    two 

Islands  volgerly  knowne  by  the  name  of  Goate  Island  and 

Coasters  harbour,  lyinge  on  the  west  of  and  neer to 

Newport by  a  (torn)  writeinge  signed  by  Cachanaquant 

a   cheife    sachim of    Narragansett    that    the Islands 

were  sold  to Arnold neer  upon  fifteen  yeares  since 

by  the sachim  for  six  pounds  ten  shillings  then  paid 

and    Benedict   Arnold   hath    from   the date   hereof 

made  over  the  said  Islands  to Newport for tenn 

pounds  in  cuntry  pay  or  six  pounds  tenn  shillings  in   New 

England    mony first    day   of    May sixteen    hundred 

seventy  three 
Wit. 

Richard  Baily  Francis  Breinly. 

Josiah  Arnold  John  Coggeshall  Senr. 


87 

Caleb  Carr 
Thomas  Ward 
Jiereh  Bull 
[hi]     Acquittance  of  John  Coggeshall  by  Generall  Assembly. 

We are by    the    Generall    Assembly    for    this 

Collony held att  Newport  on  the  30th  day  of  Octo- 
ber 1672  to  Auditt  the  Accounts  of  Mr.  John  Coggeshall  late 
Treasurer  of  the  sayd  Collony give A  full  Acquit- 
tance  it  apeares  the  Collony  is indebted  unto 

John   Coggeshall   in    the sum    of    Two    Pounds,    Eleven 

shillings  and  Seven  pence  half-penny  the  full  Balance  of 
Accounts  betweene  hime  and  Collony  the  forth  Day  of  May 
.  -.  .  .Eleventh  Day  of  July  one  Thousand  sixe  hundred  Sev- 
enty and  Three. 

Walter  Clarke 
John  Easton 
Francis  Brinley 
Peter  Easton  ' 

Peleg  Sanford 
Richard  Bailey 
Weston  Clarke 
Recorded  Augt.  ye  4th  1676 

John  Coggeshall  Recorder. 
[112]     Walter  Clarke  to  John  Coggeshall. 

Walter      Clarke      of      Newpt for Threescore 

pounds  sterling paid by  John  Coggeshall  of  New- 
port  doe sell two   parcells of    Land in 

Newport the  one containeing  in  Length  Tenn 

rodd  and  a  halfe  and  Nine  inches,  and  in  breadth  att  the 
East  and  foure  Rodd  and  a  halfe  and  two  Foott  &  Six  Inches, 
an  in  breadth  att  the  West  end,  Foure  rodd  &  a  halfe  and 

Fourteene  inches. bounded  on  the  North  by  Land  now, 

or  late  in  the  Possession  of  William  Richardson on  the 

East  and  South  by  Land  now in  the  Possession  of  Peleg 

Sanford on  the  West  by  the  High-way;  and  the  other 

Land is    bounded    on   the    East   by   the   High-way 

afore  :sayd,  on  the  South  by  Land  now in  the  Possession 


88 

of  Peleg  Sanford on  the  west  by  the  Sea,  or  Harbour 

of  the Towne  of  Newpt,  and  on  the  North  by  Land  now 

in  the  Possession  of  William  Richardson,  the  breadth 

being layd  out  According  as  the  sayd  lines  of  the 

Parcell  abovementioned first  day  of  June 1674 

Wit.  Walter  Clarke 

Daniell  Gould 

Joseph  Bryer 

Richard  Bailey. 

Hannah  Clarke  Releases  Rights. 

Hannah   Clarke   wife   of Walter   Clarke,   doe 

Relinquish, any   right which    I    now   have to 

the  two  Parcells  of  Land  above  mentioned 

Wit.  Hannah  Clarke 

Daniell  Gould 

Joseph  Bryer 

Richard  Baily 

Agreement  between  William  Coddington  and  John  Cogges- 
hall. 

William  Coddington  of  Newpt  senr is  to maine- 

taine A fence against John     Coggeshalls 

farme to  begin  att  the  Lower  end  of  the  Neck  comonly 

called  Jefiferys   Neck    (being  Land   which William 

bought  of  Robert  Jefferys, )  att  the  mouth  of  the  Creeke 

which    runeth    into Johns    Marshes,    from   the    salt    sea, 

being  the  Southwesterly  corner  of  the  sayd  Johns  farme,  and 
soe  to  run  as  the  fence  now  stands  untill  it  comes  to  A  peice 
of  ditch  which  runs  about  five  or  sixe  rodds  from  the  Upland 
Easterly  into  ye  sayd  marshes. 

Likewise    it    is agreed.  ..  ..that John    Coggeshall   is 

to mainetaine A fence as   the    fence   now 

stands,  beginning  at  the  corner  of  the  abovesayd  Ditch  which 
runs  into  the  sd  Marsh,  &  soe  untill  it  meets  with  the  sayd 

Williams  outside  Westerly  line  next  the  Comon William 

doe  grant John  free  Egress to  draw  out  stones  off 


89 

his Ground to  make  the Hne  of  fence  betweext 

them 25th  of  Augt.  1668. 

Wit.  WilHam  Coddington. 

Francis  Brinley 
Elizabeth  Burden 
[114]     Grounds  for  Divource  between  John  Coggeshall  and 
wife 

for    as    much    as    you    Ehzabeth    Baulston    whome    I 

epoused, soe  fare  failed,  neglected,  and  utterly  refused 

to  Performe  the  Marriage  Covent.,  and  by  your urgiant 

Oppertunity  to  be  Divourced,  and  to  be  sett  free; am  I 

forced  to  give  you  this  Dismission 3d  of  Oct.  1654. 

[115]     Agreement  to  Divource  by  Elizabeth  Baulston. 

This    sheweth,    that ye    Divource   which    my   Late 

Husband,  John  Coggeshall  gave  me, is by  me  desired 

3d  of  Oct.  1654 

Wit.  •  her 

Thomas  Cornell  senior.  Elizabeth  X  Baulston 

Henry  X  Bulls  marke  marke 

Court  frees  John  Coggeshall  from  his  wife. 
Providence,  25th  3d  (55) 

Mr  John  Coggeshall  Exhibited  his  Petition  to  ye  Collony 

Court  of  Comissiones   for  A  legal  discharge  from  his  Late 

Wife  Elizabeth  Baulston, hee  is  Absolutely   free to 

Contract  Another  Marriage. 

Roger  Williams  President 
[116]     John  Coggeshall — Land  Recorded. 

Mr    John    Coggeshall    of     Newpt beinge this 

Thirteenth   Day   of    Septr one   Thowsand   sixe   hundred 

sixty  and  five,  in Possession  of Lands  in Newpt 

bounded on  ye  East  &  South  by  ye  sea,  on  ye  west 

and  South-west  by  Land  in  the  Possession  of  Mr  William 
Coddington  on  ye  North-west  and  North  by  A  High-way,  & 
Land  by  hime  formerly  sould  to  Isaac  Page  now  in  the  Pos- 
session of  William  Reape,  on  the  north  and  Northerly  by 
Land  in  the  Possession  of  Hugh  Mossier,  William  and  Fran- 
cis Vahan  and  Mr  Wm  Brenton ;  which  Land  some  of  it  layd 


90 

out   to    Mr   John    Coggeshall    Senior    deceaced ;    which   part 

amounts  to Three  Hundred  Akers alsoe  one  percell 

bought   of    Mr   Robert   Jefferys,    formerly   of    Newport 

amounting  to Ninety  Akers Ajoyneinge  to  the  first 

some  layd  out, lyes  on  the  West  and  Southwest  against 

the  land  of Coddington Alsoe  one  part bought 

of  Capt  Jerimy  Clarke  and  William  Vahan  and  Frances  his 

Wife  that  was  formerly  the  Wife  of Jeremiah  Clarke, 

to  the  number  of  one  Hundred  and  Twenty  Akers all 

which  Land Amounting  to Five  Hundred  and  Ten 

Ackers ...,.  is   now    in Posession    of John    Cogges- 

hall Thirtenth    Day    of    September one    Thowsand 

Sixe-Hundred  sixty  and  Five 

Jpseph  Torrey  Generall  Recorder 
[117]     John  Smith  to  Stephen  Sabeere. 

John  Smith  of  Providence  Junior  Brother  and  heire  unto 

Leonard  Smith  late  Resident  of  Newport deceased, 

for Seventeen  Pounds  currant  Silver  Money  of  New- 
England Payd by  Stephen  Sabeere  of  Newport 

doe sell A  certaine  house  Lott  being  in New- 
port  being    fourty    foott    Square,    bounded on    the 

North-East  by  A  high-way,  on  the  South  East  by  Lott  not 
yett  Granted,  the  south  west  by  a  Lott  now in  the  Pos- 
session of  Edward  Watterson,  and  on  the  north  west  by  the 
Brooke,  or  Comon,  together  with  A  frame  for  A  Dwelling 

House  on  the Lott  Erected,  and  all  the  worke  thereunto 

done,    and    all    Materialls now    brought Twentieth 

day  of  Octr 1676. 

[118]     Wit.  John  X  Smith 

John  Hulme  his  marke 

James  Browne 
Richard  Baily 
John  Sanford  to  James  Rogers 

John    Sanford    of    Portsmouth doe sell    unto 

James  Rogers  of   Newport A   forth  part  of   Cononicatt 

Island and    Dutch    Island being   one    Hundred    and 

Twenty  Akers Bounded south  upon  the  Towne  shipp 


91 

west  upon  the  Sea,  North  upon  the  Land  which  is  Peleg  San- 
fords,    East    upon    the    high    way, Ninetenth    Day    of 

November one  Thousand  sixe  Hundred  fifety  and  nine. 

Wit.  John  Sanford 

Richard  Pearce 

Richard  Bulgere. 

James  Rogers  to  WilHam  Brenton 

James   Rogers   of    Newpt doe make   over  this 

Present  Deed  unto  Mr  William  Brenton  of  Newport one 

and  Twentieth  of  March  1659. 


60 

Wit.  The  X  marke  of 

William  Baulston  James  Rogers 

Will  Dyre 
[119]     Jahleel  Brenton  to  Joseph  Browne. 

Jahleel    Brenton    of     Newport Gentleman doe 

release, unto    Joseph    Browne    of    Charles    Towne 

Minister  of  the  Gospell all  such Lands Granted 

unto  hime  by  my  Honoed  Father  William  Brenton  lat  of  New- 
port  deceased Eighteenth    Day    of    November 

One  Thousand,  Six  Hundred,  Seventy  and  Sixe. 

Wit.  Jahleel  Brenton 

Benja  Browne 

Richard  Baily. 
[120]     Edward  Rainebrow  to  William  Browne. 

Edward  Rainebr(Dw  of  Knights  bridge  in  the  County  of 

Middx England    Esqr for five    hundred    Seav- 

enty  and  five  Pounds  of mony  of  New-England  to  me 

by  William  Browne  senr  of  Salem  in Essex  in 

Massathusets Marcht Doe^  .  .  .  .sell one    Moitie 

of  Prudence  Island lyeing in  the  Bay  of  Nar- 

raganset   neare   unto   Rhod-Island Twenty   first   day   of 

February one  Thousand  six  hundred  Seaventy  and  two 


Wit.  Edward  Rainbrow 

Thomas  Deane 
John  Paine 
John  Hayward  senr 


92 

[i2i]      Prudence  Island  Deed  certified. 

Boston  in  the  Mattachusetts  Colony 

certifie that  the Deed    herewith  annexed 

of   Edward   Rainbrow unto  William   Browne  senior   for 

the  Moity  of  Prudence  Island  is Legall according  to 

Law before  Edward  Tyng  Esqr  an  Assistant  in  the  Gov- 
ernment of  this  Colony first  day  of  September 

1676.  John  Leverett  Govr. 

[123]     James  Barker  and  Elisha  Smith. 
16  day  8  mo.  75. 

between  us  James  Barker  senior  and  Elisha  Smith 

both  of  Rhod-Island have  Agreed that  the  Bounds 

betweene  our  two  Farmes  is First  that  the  old  bound 

marked   Brooke   neare   ould   mr   Smiths    House   where 

Barkers  fence  comes  downe  on  the  South  side  to  the  old  bound 

by  the  brooke  side, from  that  bound  to  that  end  of  the 

farme  the  fence  that  old  Mr.  Smith  made  and  mainetained  for 
many  yeares  mentioned,  shall  Perpeatually  for  ever  betweene 
us,  and  to  end  att  James  Mans  corner  of  his  fences  of  the 

Land  had  of  Mr  Smith  by  Agreement 

Wit.  James  Barker 

Obadiah  Holme  Elisha  Smith 

The  marke  of  John  X  Pepodey 

The  marke  of  Georg  X  Keech 

Jefifery  Champlin  to  Walter  Clarke. 

Eight   Day   of    May Sixteene   Hundred   sixty   and 

nine Jefifery  Champlin  senr.  Inhabitant  now  in  Squama- 

cutt,    (Alis  Kings   Province  Shoemaker,  hath sold  unto 

Walter  Clarke  of   Newport Land  and  Houseing,  lyeing 

in  Newport Bounded  on  the  East  by  the  Land  of  Walter 

Conigrave,  on  the  north  by  ye  Land  of  Robert  Burdick  and 
Andrew  Langworthy,  and  on  the  South  and  west  to  the  High- 
ways, Containeing  Fourty  Akers 

Wit.  The  marke  of 

James  Barker  Jefifery  X  Champlin 

Joseph  Bryer 

Nicholas  Easton  Junr. 


93 

[124]     Walter  Clarke — Land  Recorded. 

Walter  Clarke  (son  of  Capt.  Jeremiah  Clarke  Deceased) 

of  Newport beinge this fourth  Day  of  October 

one  Thowsand  Sixe  Hundred  sixety  and  five,  in 

Possession of  Land  in Newport Bounded 

one  Parcell  being  Fifety  Ackers bounded  on  the  north  by 

Land of  Mr  Nicholas  Easton  formerly  by  hime  bought 

of  John  Smith  Deceased,  on  the  East,  and  part  on  the  South 

by  other  Lands  of Nicholas  Easton,  and  further  on  the 

Southerly  Line  by  a  swampe  haveing  there  A  Turneing  before 
it  comes  to  the  Swampe,  that  the  sayd  Eastons  Land  border 
againe   upon   it    on   the    East,    which    Swampe   aforesayd    is 

comonly  called   Bracys  swampe,  as  alsoe  bordering  on 

Land of  Thomas  Clifton,  and  Westerly  by  Land of 

Benedict  Arnold,  or  high-way ;  alsoe  one  Parcell  Lyeing  neare 

and  fronting  against  are  Towne,  bounded  North by  the 

Common,  and  A  high  or  Drift  way  goeing  out  of  the  Streete 
or  Comon  up  Easterly  betwext  the  Land  of  the  sayd  Walter 

Clarke  And  the  Land of  Thomas  Waterman,  that  was 

formerly  the  land  of  Robert  Griffon,  on  the  East  or  South- 

East  by  Land  sold  by Clarke  to   Mr  William  Brenton, 

and  on  the  south  by  Land  of  ye  William  Brenton  bought  of 
Walter  Clarke  and  Jeffery  Champlin,  and  on  the  West  by 
Land  of  Peleg  Sanford,  Mr  John  Gard,  and  the  sayd  Bren- 
ton, which  Percell  amounts  to Twenty  Ackers Alsoe 

one  Orchard  bounded  East  by  the  Land  of  Peleg  Sanford, 
South  by  Land  of  Mr  John  Coggeshall,  West  by  the  High- 
way, North  by  the  Comon,  with  A  smal  Percell  betweext  the 
Last  mentioned  High  way  and  the  sea,  south  by  John  Cogges- 
hall North  by  the  High-way;  all Parcells Amount  to 

seventy  Ackers with  all belonging  As  one  Dweling 

house,  one  Barne,  with  all  housing,  fruit  Trees this  Deed, 

is  to   Ratifie the   same unto  the   sayd   Walter 

Clarke ; 

Joseph  Torrey  Generall  Recorder. 
[125]     Mathew  West  to  Nathaniell  West. 
mathew     West     of Newport Tayler, unto 


94 

my  Grand-Child  Nathaniell  West,  sonn  of  my  Eldest  Son 
Nathaniell  West  who  did  depart  this  Hfe  many  yeares  agoe ; 

And   for  as   much  my Grand-child doth,   live   with 

mee, I have  freely  Given, my Grand-Child 

my  Dwelling  Howse  I  now  live  in,  with  all  Land  there 

tmto belonging Fowrty  Akers lyeing with- 
in  Newport, bounded.    Northerly    by    the    Land    of 

John  Crandall,  Southerly  by  the  Land  of  John  Thornton, 
Eastwardly,  and  Westerly  by  the  Common  which For- 
merly belonged  unto  John  Roe,  and  Edward  Brouse with 

All  dwellings,   or  mansion  Howse, Fenceings,   Gardens, 

Orchards belonging, Sixteenth  day  of  January 

one  Thowsand  Sixe  Hundred  Seventy  and  Sixe jj. 

Wit.  Mathew  West 

The  marke  of 

John  X  Parker 
The  marke  of 

Dorathy  X  Haward 

Edmond  Colverly 
[126]     William  Richardson  to  Walter  Newbery. 

New  Yorke  the  9  -  day  of July  1674. 

William   Richardson   -  marrinar,   master  of   the   Catch 

May-Flower,  now  in  the  Road  of  New-Yorke  and  late  Inhabi- 
tant of  Rhod-Island for valliable  Satisfaction 

payd  ; Have sold unto  Walter  Newbery  of  Lon- 
don Mchant  -  now  resideing  in  Rhod-Island  -  One  Dwelling 

House standing  in Newport  Towne now  in  the 

Possession  of  one  Amey  Paine  Widdow,   Tenant, unto 

the  aforesayd   William  Richardson with   all Lands, 

Orchards,  Gardens,  woods,  underwoods,  Timbers, Com- 
mons,   Pastures,    ways.    Waters, Ware-Houses,    Wharf - 

reige,  Cellers, Nineth  day  of Fifth  month, 1674. 

Wit.  William  Richardson 

Walter  Clarke 

Robt  Ford 

The  marke  of 

Tho:  X  Winterton. 


95 

[127]     John  Porter  to  William  Gardiner. 

John    Porter    of     Petiqomscut    in     Narrogansett 

have Granted    unto    William    Gardiner,    son    to    Georg 

Gardiner  at  Newport, Land,  bounded  Westerly  on  Henry 

Gardiners    Land,    Northerly    on    A    High-way    lyeing    next 
Benony  Gardiners  Land,  Southerly  on  Samuell  Wilbors  Land, 

and    Easterly    on    John    Porters    Land containeing    two 

Hundred  Acers  of  Land first  of  January  one  Thowsand 

sixe  hundred  seventy  and  one, 

Wit.  John  Porter 

Henry  Gardiner    his  X  marke  Horad  Porter 

Benany  Gardiner     his  X  marke  her  X  marke 

[128]      Protest  of  John  Herbert. 
Newport  on  Rhod-Island  February  26th  1676. 

be  it  knowne That did  Personally  apeare  before 

me  John   Coggeshall John   Herbert   Commander  of   the 

Sloope   Swan;   and   did   Alleage by  the   Testimonies   of 

these  Wittnesses Israeli  Spencer  and  John  Harcer,  marri- 

ners  aboard  the   -  sloope on  the    13th being  on  A 

voyage bound  for  New-York,  they  were  by  Tempestuous 

wind  and  seas,  and Darkness  of  the  Wether  Concurring, 

forced  A  shore  upon  the  Sandy  point  of  Monnainoy on 

behalfe  of  himselfe  and  Company,  and  alsoe  for  the  owners 

of  the  -  Sloope, doth  -  Publickly Protest  against  the 

sea,  winde,  and  bad  wether,  for  all  Losses 

Mathew  Boomer — Land  Recorded. 

Mathew     Boomer     of Newport beinge in 

Posession  of Land,  lyeing in Newport, Ten 

Acres Purchased  of  Henry  Stevens  of  Peter  Easton 

beinge bounded on   the    North    side    and    East    and 

upon  the  Land  of  Henry  Tew,  formerly  belonging  to  Rich- 
ard Tew   Deceased  on  the  south  upon   the  Land   of   Peter 

Easton,   being   Twenty   Pole    wide    from Richard    Tews 

Land,  now of  his  son  Henry on  the  West  end  on 

the  Hye-way.  . .  .  .with  all Dwelling,  or  Mansion  Houses, 

Barnes, Orchards,    Gardens, according    to    a    Law 

made the  22th  of  May  1662 All Promisses,  are 

liereby  Ratified Recorded  26th  of  February  1676. 

John  Coggeshall. 


96 

[129]     John  Parker — Land  Recorded. 

John  Parker  of  Newport being in Pos- 
session    of Land,     lyeing     in Newport Thirety 

one  Acers  -  bounded  Southerly  upon  the  Land  of  Edward 
Robinson  -  Easterly  upon  the  Land  of  John  AUin,  and  upon 
the  Common,  Northerly  and  Westerly  upon  the  Comon, 
Twentone  Acres   was   Purchased  of  John  Allin,  Ten  Acres 

was  Purchased  of  Robert  Tayler  Husbandman, with  all 

Dwelling,  or  Mantion  Howses,  Barnes, Orchards,  Gar- 
dens,  belonging according  to   a   Law   made the 

22th    of    May    1662 All are    hereby    Ratified, 

Recorded 26th  of  February  1676. 

John  Coggeshall. 
[130]     Henry  Stevens  to  Mathew  Boomer. 

Henry  Stevens  of  Newport Blacksmith,  did  about 

Eighteene  yeares  since, make  over  unto  Mathew  Boomer 

of      Newport Land,     lyeing in      Newport tenn 

Akers  bounded  on  the  North  and  East  with  Land  formerly  in 
the  Possession  of  Richard  Tew  deceased,  on  the  South  by 

Land of  Peter  Easton,  and  on  the  West  by  A  High  way, 

being    Twenty    Pole    wide the Deed was 

lost  when  his  House  was  Burned  by  the  Indians  during  these 

late   Warrs.     These    are to   confirme  unto Mathew 

Boomer the Tenn  Acres six  and  Twenteth  Day 

of  February,  one  Thowsand,  six  hundred  seventy  and  six. 
Wit.  Henry  Stevens. 

John  Coggeshall 
Richard  Baily 
Mathew  Boomer  to  Georg  Browne. 

Mathew     Boomer    of     Newport for one    and 

Thirty  pounds  currant  Silver  money  of  New  England 

paid by   Georg   Browne    of    Newport Planter, 

have  Granted Land,  Lyeing in newport Ten 

Acres bounded on   the    North   and   East   by   Land 

lately  in  the   Possession   of   Richard   Tew  deceased,   on  the 
South  by  Land of  Peter  Easton,  and  on  the  West  by  A 


97 

High  way,  the Land Granted in  bredth  Twenty 

Rod six  and  Twentieth  day  of  February 1676. 

Wit.  Mathew  Boomer 

Thomas  Ward 

Richard  Barnes 

Richard  Baily 
[131]     David  Greenman — Land  Recorded. 

one  Thowsand  six  hundred  and  fourty  Eight Land 

Containeing  Thirety  Acres lyeing  on  the  Easterne  end  of 

David    Greenmans,    Edward    Greenmans,    and   John    Greens 

Lands bounded  on  the  Southern  side  by Land  which 

David,  Edward  and  John  bought of  Mr  Easton,  and 

bounded  on  the  East  by  the  Hie-way  to  the  Land  of   Mr 
Brenton  comonly  called  the  Pinnfold,  and  boundeth  upon  the 

border  of  the Land  by  markes  at  the  Brooke  side  downe 

to  Jeremy  Goulds  fence,  and  then  by  the  comer  of Jere- 
miah Goulds  farme  down  to  the  Eastern  end  of  John  Wests 

Lands,  and  soe  by  the  afore-sayd  line, of David,  and 

Edward Thirty   Acres   of   Land is    fully   Impropri- 
ated  first  of  Aprill 1648. 

William  Dyre  Genr  Recordr. 
[132]  Nicholas  Easton  to  David  and  Edward  Greenman. 
Land  Containeing  Twenty  Acres lyeing  at  the  East- 
ern end  of  David  and  Edward  Greenmans  Land,  bounded  on 
the  south  by  John  Greens  Land  on  the  East  by  the  hie  way 
to  the  Pinfold,  on  the  North  by  the  Land  of  David  and 
Edward  Greenman,  which L.and  being  the Posses- 
sions of  Nicholas  Easton  of  Newport doth sell  unto 

David  and  Edward  Greenman with  another  Percell 

containeing  seven  Acres lyeing  at  the  west  end  of 

David    and    Edwards    Lands,    and   bounded   all    else   by   the 

Comon, First  Day  of  Aprill 1648 

Wit.  Nick:  Easton 

William  Dyre 

Jeremiah  Willis 

John  Horndells  X  marke. 


98 

Edward  Greenman  from  Towne  of  Newport. 

28th  of  July sixteene  hundred  fifety  and  eight, 

Edward  Greenman  Wheelright  on  the  Thirteenth  of   Aprill 

1656  made Complaint  unto  the  Towne  of  Newport 

for  want  of  Land.  The  Towne  then  ordered  that  Georg  Bliss, 
Mr  Edward  Smith,  Obediah  Holmes  should  near  his  Dwelling 
House  out  of  the  Comon  lay  out  to  hime  what  he  wanted, 

not  infringing  any  hyeway,  which they  did bearing 

date  the  tenth  of  July  1656 Bounded,  the  breadth 

aboute  Ten  Rod  long  at  one  side,  which  is  Northerly,  and 

some  Twenty  two  Rod  long  at  the  other  side, southerly, 

the  west  and  East  side  is  as  long  as  the  Land  bought  of 
Jeremiah  Clarke  is  broad,  bounded  at  the  Northwest  and 
Southwest  corners  by  two  smal  white  oakes,  Containeing  four 

Acres  and  halfe on  the  Twenty  seventh  of  January  1657 

the  Towne   Gierke   Marke   Luker   should make  A 

deed unto Edward 

Wit.  Marke  Lucar 

John  Gould  Towne  Gierke 

Samuell  Hubbard 
[133]     Robert  Carr  to  Samuell  Davis. 

Robert    Carr    of    Newport senior for one 

Hundred  pounds  currant  silver  money  of  New-England  part 

was  payd by  Nicholas  Davis  late  of  Newport 

deceased and  the  Remainer,  by  his  son  Samuell  Davis 

have sould Samuell  Davis two  pieces 

of     Land,     lyeing in Newport bounded on 

the  north  by  Land of  mee on  the  East  by  Land 

late of  William  Brenton  Deceased,  on  the  South  by  Land 

of  Caleb  Carr,  and  on  the  West  by  the  streete,  or  high- 
way,  being  in  bredth  at  the  East  end  Seven  Rodd,  and 

at  the  west  end  six  rodd  &  two  f ott,  out  of  which  I have 

reserved  to  myself e, A  smal  piece  of  Land  for  a  Burie- 

ing  place  to  containe  Eight  foott  of  Ground  each  way  from 

A  Rock  there  being ;  The other Land is  bounded 

on  the  North  by  Land  in  ye  Possession  of  mee, on  the 

East  by  the  streete  or  Highway  -  on  the  south  by  Land 


99 

late of Caleb  Carr,  and  on  the  west  by  the  sea  or 

Harbour  of Newport sixteenth  day  of  March 

1676. 

Wit.  Robert  Carr 

John  Cranston 

John  Greene  ser 

Richard  Baily 
[134]     John  Porter  to  Nicholas  Gardiner. 

John  Porter  December  27  -  1671  -  have made  over 

my  whole  Intrest of  A  sixt  part  of  the  Thowsand 

Acres Layd  out  to  us  the  six  Purchassers  of  the  Narra- 

g^ansett  Land.     Viz  -  John   Porter,    Samuell   Wilbore,   John 
Hull,  Thomas  Mumford,  Samuell  Wilson,  and  William  Bren- 

ton ;  which Land  lyes  neare  the  Land  Layd  out  to  Henry 

Knowles,   which   sixt   part I   have   made    over unto 

Nicholas  Gardiner  haveing  received  full  Satisfaction 

Wit.  John  Porter 

Lodowick  Updicke  Horad  Porter 

Georg  Gardiner  her  X  marke 

his  X  marke. 
[135]     Georg  Gardiner  to  Nicholas  Gardiner. 
November  the  7  -  1673 

Geor^    Gardiner    have    made    over unto    Nicholas 

Gardiner   Threescore   Akers    of    Land,   bounded on   the 

south  side  on  Benony  Gardiners  Land,  the  1000  Acres  lyeing 
on  the  north  side  of  it,  and  the  sayd  Land  is  to  be  layd  out  at 

the  Eastward  end  of  the  sayd  Georges  Land 

Wit.  Georg  Gardiner 

John  Watson  Tabiatha  Gardiner 

Dorcus  Watson  her  X  marke. 

her  X  marke 

John  Porter  to  Nicholas  Gardiner. 
November  -  22th  1673. 

John  Porter  &  Horad  Porter  my  wife  doe give  unto 

Nicholas  Gardiner  one  Hundred  Akers  of  Land  bounded 

northerly,    on    the    Thowsand    Acres    formerly    layd    out    to 
Benedict  Arnold and  Easterly  on  John  Watsons  Land, 


lOO 

and  Westerly  on  Benony  Gardiners  Land,  and   sotherly   on 

John  Watsons  Land 

\Yit.  John  Porter 

John  Watson  Horad  Porter 

Georg  Hikes  her  X  marke 

his  X  marke 
[136]     Protest  of  John  Goose. 

Newport March  28th  1677. 

on  the Date  hereof  did appear  before  mee 

John    Coggeshall John    Goose    Comander   of    the    Ketch 

Society,    with    his    Company and    doth enter    their 

Protest  against  the  said  Ketch  for  her  Insufficiency  to  indure 

the  sea in  ordinary  wether  her  seames  would  open 

and  when  they  carryed  sayle, she  would  -  take  in  soe 

much  water  to  Lee-ward, that  we  were  forced  to  keepe 

the  pumps  goeing 

John  Goose 

signed 
Thomas  X  Banfield 
Edward  X  Barton 

his  marke 
John  Cheritrie 
Passongers 

Ralfe  Blackball 
Frances  Ellis 
[137]     John  Hickes  to  Stephen  Sabeere. 

John     Hickes     of     Newport shipcarpenter for 

Twenty    and    five    shillings payd by    Stephen 

Sabeere     of     Newport have     remised a House 

Lott     lyeing in Newport which     was     granted 

January Twenty  eight  one  Thowsand  six  hundred  sev- 
enty six  being  forty  foott  square,  and  bounded on  the 

north  east  by  A  High  way ;  on  the  south  east  by  Lott  not  yett 

Granted;    on    the    south    west    by    a    Lott late of 

Edward  Waterson,  and  on  the  north  west  by  the  Brooke  or 
Comon first  day  of  April! 1677. 


lOI 

\Yit.  John  Hickes 

Peleg^  Santora 

Edmund  Colverley 

Samuell  Andrews  Protests. 

Newport Aprill  nth  1677. 

on    the Date    hereof,    did.  ....  .Samuell    Andrews, 

Comander  of  the  Ketch  Providence,  and  did Prove  by 

these  Wittnesses John  Weeden,  John  Coe,  Thomas 

Rapere,  Marriners  aboard  the  sayd  Ketch,  that Samuell 

Andrews  being  on  a  Voyage  with  the  sayd  Ketch, bound 

for  New- York,  they  were  by  Tempestuous  wind  and   Seas, 

and  very  firce  Raigne  Concurring,  forced  A  shore  Upon 

A  sandy  Beach,  on  Rhod-Island being  open  to  the  Otion, 

and  very  great  Brakers, on  behalf e  of  himself e  and  Com- 
pany  doth Protest 

Jt)hn  Coggeshall 
[138]     Walter  Todd  to  Thomas  Greene. 

.....  Walter  Todd of  Warwick for full  satis- 
faction  payd  by  Thomas  Greene  of  the  sayd  Towne 

have Granted one    Lott    lying   in    Shawomett    Neck 

neere Warwick,  Containeing  Eighteene  Acres being 

amongst  the  second  Devision  of  Lotts  (there) the  Six- 
teenth Lott,  Bounded  upon  the  Southerly  side  by  A  Twelve 

Acre   Lott of    Captaine   John   Greene,    Northerly   by   A 

Lott of  Benjamine  Barton  of  the  same  Tenner  knowne 

upon  Record to  be  the  Seventeenth  Lott,  there  being  at 

the  Northerne  corner  of  this  Sixteenth  Lott  A  Pine  Tree 
blowne  dow^ne,  and  A  stone  pitcht  at  the  roote  thereof  by 
the  highway,  from  thence  Easterly  upon  A  straight  line  to 
A  Saxefrex  stumpe  upon  the  brinke  of  the  banke  by  the  sea, 
also  at  the  North  east  side  of  Captaine  John  Greenes  Twelve 
Acre  Lott,  is  A  great  stone  pitcht,  And  from  thence  upon  A 
straite  line  Northerly  to  A  yong  Walnutt  Tree  with  stones 
pitcht  at  the  roote  thereof,  and  from  thence  upon  A  straight 
Line  Easterly  downe  to  the  sea,  A  stone  being  there  pitcht 

by    the     sea,     Alsoe one     smal     Lott,     sett in 

Shawomett  Neck,  five  Acres, Numbered the  Eleventh 


102 

Lott,  And  lyeth  amongst  the  Third  Devision  of  Lotts  in  the 

Neck,  Bounded  by  Captaine  Randall  Houldens  Lott  of 

the  same   Tennure,   Numbered the  Tenth  Lott,   and   on 

the  Northerly  side  by  A  Lott  of  the  same  Tenure in  the 

Tenure of    John    Warner,    Numbered the     Twelth 

Lott,  westerly  by  A  High  way  that  leads  through Shawo- 

mett  Neck,  and  -  Easterly  by  the  Meadows  that  lye  by  the 
Sea, Ninth  Day  of  March one  Thowsand  six  Hun- 
dred Seventy  and  Three,  74. 
Wit.  Walter  Todd 

Edmund  Colverley  Margrett  Todd 

Richard  Codner 
[139]     Leif tenant  Eliza  Collins  to  Thomas  Greene. 

Leif  tenant  Eliza  Collins of  the  Towne  of  Warwick 

have    Indented, unto    Mr    Thomas    Green of 

Warwick  my  dwelling  house  and  house-Lott the  -  House 

Lott  being  bounded,  Northeasterly  by  Mr  Edmund  Calverly 
his  house  Lott,  Southerly  by  the  streete;  Southwesterly  by 
the  house  Lott  of  Thomas  Greene  aforesayd,  and  at  the  North 

end  -  by  A  sixe  Aker  Lott being  likewise  Bounded  on 

each  side  by  the  Land  of  Thomas  Greene,  and  Edmund  Cal- 
verly, as  alsoe  Three  shares  of  Meddow,  one  of  them  lyeing 

att  Toskeunke,  Alias  Papiassit  being the  Sixteenth  share, 

another  share  lyeing  at  Potaomet,  being  -  the  Nineteenth 
share,  as  alsoe  the  other  share  lyeing  neare  the  sea  side  on 

the  Southwest  side  of  Nausaucut  Neck  of  Land 23d  day 

of  June 1664 

Wit.  Eliza  Collins 

John  Green  Sarah  Collins 

Edmund  Calverley 

John  Potter 
[140]     John  Greene  to  James  and  Thomas  Greene. 

John    Greene in 1662    the    sixteenth    Day    of 

June  bought  A  percell  of  Land  fronting  on  my  Neck  of  land 
att  Occuppessuatuxet  westerly  being  Bounded,  Southerly  by 
Warwick  North  line,  and  Northerly  by  A  due  West  line  from 
the  head  of  Patiunco  Cove,  and  soe  downe  to  Petuxet  River, 


I03 

as   by   an    Instrument   beareing   date   ye    Sixteenth   of   June 

af oresayd  under  Mossups  hand may  Apeare,  Therefore 

I doe  give, unto  my  two  Brothers  Mr  James  Greene 

and  Mr  Thomas  Greene A  certaine  percell  of  the  sayd 

Land,  bounded begining  at  A  white  Oake  Tree  marked 

in  Warwick  North  Hne,  being  about  one  Hundred  fifty  six 
Pole  westward  from  the  front  fence  of  my  Neck  aforesayd, 
as  alsoe  beginning  at  A  bounder  the  same  depth  from  the 
front  fence  on  the  south  side,  and  is  to  range  the  whole 
breadth  Westward  soe  farr  as  the  Boggie  Meddows  by  the 
spruse  swampe  it  being  A  bounder  thereof,  and  soe  ranging 
by  the  North  end  of  the  spruce  swampe  to  A  black-Oake,  and 
thence  to  A  smale  Oake,  and  further  to  A  Great  white  Oake 
neare  Warwick  north  line,  and  from  those  two  last  Bounders 
being  about  halfe  the  breadth  of  the  Purchase  unto  too 
marked  trees  at  the  west  end  thereof  being  about  272  Rodd 
deepe  further  about  halfe  the  breadth  as  aforesayd,  reserveing 
six  Rodd  for  the  High  way  to  Petuxott  at  the  Valley,  as 
alsoe  a  Highway  six  rodd  wide  from  my  share  of  Land  front- 
ing on  my  Neck  aforesayd  to  the  sayd  Valley,  neare  where 
the  Cartway  now  is,  and  from  the  Valley  due  West  neare  the 
middest  of  this  Land  before  specified  leading  towards  Pota- 

conksitt 30th  of  March  1675. 

Wit.  John  Greene  senr. 

Jaremiah  Wastcott 

Phillip  Greene 
[141]     Will  of  William  Almy. 

William  Almy  doe bequeath my  Body  to  be  Buryed 

by  my  son  John  if  I  dye  here  upon  my  farme,  and.  my  Wordly 

goods   if   my  Wife   out   Live   mee   shee   shall   have and 

after  her  Death  Christopher  shall  have  halfe  my  farme, 

which  is  next  to  the  Land  which  gave  to  my  son  John  Almy; 
and  for  my  Mault-House,  whose  share  it  falls  into  they  shall 
have  equall  shares  of  it,  not  to  devide  it  but  to  keepe  it  for 
A  mault-House  for  every  season,  And  the  other  halfe  of  my 
farme,  I  give  it  to  my  Son  Job  Almy,  with  my  Dwelling 
House,  &  too  Orchards ; and  for  my  Catle,  and  the  move- 


104 

able, remaining  at  our  Deathes,  I  give  to  my  Daughter 

Anna  and  my  Daughter  Kathren  each  of  them  two  parts,  And 
to  my  son  Christopher  Almy.  And  my  son  Job  Almy  each  of 
them  one  part,  and  to  my  Grand  Child   Bartholmew   West, 

Twenty  Pounds  silver  money  to  be  payd  hime  when  he 

comes  to  Age  Last  of  February  1676. 

Wit.  William  Almy. 

Robert  Hodgson 

James  Barker  seanr. 
[142]     Atestation  of  Robert  Hodgson  and  James  Barker. 

Robert  Hodgson  and  James  Barker  on  the  23  -  of  - 

Aprill  1677  did  Apeare  before the  Councell  of  the  Towne 

of  Portsmouth  and  did  afirme  that  the  above  written  was  the 
Will  of  the  Deceased  William  Almy. 

John  Heath  # 

Francis  X  Braiton 
his  marke 

Joshua  Coggeshall  Assist. 
Wm.  Cadman  Assist. 
John  Sanford 
Samuell  Wilbor 

Orders  of  Councell. 

Genii.  Councell of  Rhod-Island 21th  of  2d  mo 

called  Aprill  1677. 

ordered  that  the  Powder  &  Amonition,  &  Bread,  in  the 

Custody   of   John   Coggeshall  Treasurer   &  William   Brinley 

Comissary  belonging  to  the  Island be.     Delivered  unto 

Walter  Clarke  Governr.  by  him  to  be  keept  for  security,  in 
part, 

William  Cadman     Assistt.        Walter  Clarke     Govr. 

Randele  Houlden     Assistt.       Jon  Cranston     Dept.  Govr. 

Samll  Gorton     Assistt.  James  Barker     Assistt. 

John  Coggeshall     Assistt.         John  Easton     Assistt. 

Joshua  Coggeshall     Assistt. 
[143]    William  Coddington  to  David  and  Edward  Greeneman. 

William  Coddington  Esqr.  doe  Assigne Sixty  two 

Akers lyeing   on   the   Easterly   side   of   the   mil   brooke, 


105 

bounded  on  the  south  by  the  High-way  that  goes  to  Ports- 
mouth, or  the  great  Comon,  and  on  the  North,  by  John 
Smiths  Land, to  David  Greeneman,  and  Edward  Greene- 
man  of  the  sayd  Towne which  Percell  of  Land  was  Pur- 
chased by  mee  of  Robert  Carr  of  the  sayd  Towne tenth 

of  Aprill  one  Thowsand  six  Hundred  fourty  and  two. 

William  Coddington  Gor. 
[144]     Benedict  Arnold  to  Penelope  and  Roger  Gouldinge. 

Benedict    Arnold    of    Newport senr unto    my 

Daughter  Penelope  Gouldinge  wife  of  Roger  Goulding, 

as part  of  her  dowrey  ; Have,  Given, two  peeces 

of  land,  lyinge in Newport whose  bounds 

are on  the  west  by  the  sea  or  harbour  of  the.  Towne,  on 

the  North  by  a  Comon  hie-way,  on  the  East  by  a  certaine  hie- 
way  of  two  Rod  wide,  which  I  have  laid  forth  of  my  owne 

land  for  the  use  of  my  selfe To  Extend  to  certaine  land 

by  me  Given to  my  Sonn  Benedict  Arnold  junr.,  and  on 

the  south  by  land  in  posession  of  mee The land 

beinge  in  bredth  at  the  East  and  Seven  rod  and  a  foot,  and 

at  the  west  and  six  Rodd  the  North  side  beinge as  the 

fence  now  stands,  and  the  south  side  on  a  straight  line  from 

one  of  the  ends  unto  the  other.,  The  other Land is 

bounded  on  the  west  by  the  hie-way,  and  on  the  East  and 

South  by  land  in  the  posession  of  me beinge  in  bredth, 

at  the  west  end  seven  Rodd  and  a  foot,  and  at  the  East  end 
Six  Rodd,  the  North  side  beinge  in  length  Seven  Rodd  and 

three  foot  and  the  south  side  six  Rodd, four  and  twen- 

tith  day  of  June 1676. 

Wit.  Benedict  Arnold  Senr. 

Aron  Davis 

Benedict  Arnold  junr. 

Richard  Bayly. 
[145]     Peleg  Tripp  to  George  Sisson. 

Peleg     Tripp     of Dartmoth     in New-plymoth 

yeoman for the Mutuall      Exchange      of 

thirty    two    acres    of     Land     in Portsmouth made 

between  my  selfe  and  George  Sisson of  Portsmouth 


io6 

doe  alien  unto George   Sisson three   eight  parts   of 

a  whole  share in the  Towne-shipp  of  Dartmoth 

The    devided    part   -   beinge bounded Thirty    acres 

North  by  the  way  to  the  fishinge  place,  Easterly  by  the 

great  river,  southerly  by  the  land  of  Joseph  Tripp,  and  west- 
erly by  the  Comon,  Thirty  acres lyinge  at  the  fresh  pond, 

lyinge   westward,    from   the    afore-named    thirty   acres; 

bounded  North  with  the  land  of  Richard  Sisson,  west  with 
the  said  fresh  pond,  south,  and  East  by  the  Comon,  and  fif- 

teene  acres  of  land bounded  south  by  the  land  of  William 

Cadman  East  by  the  River  North  and  west  by  the  Comon  All 

land amounting to seventy  five  acres 

with  all  houses  Orchards To  bee  Holden  of  his  Majtie 

as  of  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich seventh  day  of 

Aprill one  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  seven. 

Wit.  Peleg  Tripp. 

John  Sanford. 
Benj.  X  Congdon. 
his  marke 
[146]     Thomas  Burge  to  Thomas  Ward 

Thomas    Burge    of    Newport for six    and    Twenty 

pounds    and    tenn    shillings    currant    Silver    mony    of    New- 
England, paid by  Thomas  Ward   of   Newport 

Merchant have sold one  quarter of  a 

share  of  Land  both  upland  and  medow.  beinge  at  Achushena 

in    the    Towne-shipp    of    Dartmoth    in Plymoth and 

alsoe  one  third  part of  a  halfe share  of  Land,  both 

upland  and  medow beinge  at Pescomancusk  in  the 

Towne-ship    of    Dartmoth both percells I    pur- 

chassed  together  with  other  land  of  Robert  Bartlett  of  Ply- 
moth nine  -  and  Twentith  day  of  July 1671. 

Wit.  Thomas  Burge 

John  Read  Lillia  Burge 

Richard  Baily  her  X  marke 

[147]     William  Mirick  to  Thomas  Ward. 

William  Mirick  senr.  of  Eastham  in New-Plymoth 

husbandman for nine      pounds paid      by 


I07 

Thomas   Ward   of   Rhode-Island    Merchant doe sell 

one  halfe  of  all  my  share  of  Land  at  Seconnett 

which Land  was  granted  by  the  Court  of  New-plymoth 

to    the    old    servants    whereof William    Mirick    is 

one 31     of    January one     Thowsand    six    hundred 

seventy  and  three. 

Wit.  WilHam  Meyrik. 

Samuel!  Treate. 

Stephen  Peaige. 

William   Mirick  and   Rebeckah 

his  wife  made  apeareance 

John  Freeman  Asistant 
[148]     Thomas  Burge  to  Thomas  Ward. 
Thomas  Burge  of  Newport for twinty  pounds  cur- 
rant Silver  money  of  New  England paid by  Thomas 

Ward    of    Newport Merchant have sould 

one  quarter of  a  part of  land beinge  at  Acus- 

hena  in  the   Towneship  of   Dartmouth   in New   Plimoth 

five  and  twentieth  day  of  January 1674. 

Wit.  Thomas  Burge 

Richard  Barnes. 

Richard  .  Baily 
Thomas  Burg  of  Newport  and  Liddia  his  wife acknowl- 
edged the  above June  27th  1677 

Joseph  Clarke  Asistant 
[149]     John  Almy  to  Thomas  Ward. 

John  Almy  of  Portsmouth Merchant for 

seven  pounds  sterll paid  by  Thomas  Ward  of  Newport 

Merchant doe sell one    halfe     share 

of  Land  on  the  J!^eck  called  Seconnet  and  parts  adjacent 

Twenty  seventh  day  of  January one  Thowsand  six  hun- 
dred and  seventy  five. 
Wit.  John  Almy 

William  Hiscox  Mary  Almy  the  wife  of 

John  Read.  John  Almy  doe give  my 

consent 

Mary  Almy 


io8 

[150]     Mathew  Mayhew  to  Peleg  Sanford,  etc. 

Mathew  Mayhew  of  Martins  Vinyard  in  America  son 

and  heire  of  Thomas  Mayhew  Junr.  deceassed my  Grand 

father  Thomas   Mayhew,   and   my  Father   Thomas    Mayhew 

did receive of   the   Honod   the    Lord    SterUng 

a  grant   of certaine   Islands  neere   to   Martins   Vinyard 

afore-said    called Elszabeth    Islands under    certaine 

Conditions I for twelve    pounds    currant    mony 

of  New-England paid  by  Peleg  Sanford,  Phillip  Smith 

and  Thomas  Ward,  all  of  Newport doe make  over 

the  two  westermost  of  the Elsabeth  Islands 

seven  and  Twentith  day  of  October  1674. 
Wit.  Mathew  Mayhew 

Tristram  Cofifin 
Richard  Barnes 
Richard  Baily 

Newport September     i6th     1681     Richard     Barnes 

Testefieth  that  the  above was  signed by  Mathew 

Mayhew  Before  mee  Caleb  Carr  Asistant 

[151]     freemen  of  Newport  to  Thomas  Fry. 

the  freemen of  Newport 29th  of  January  1672 

granted  unto  Thomas  Fry of  Newport a  hause 

lott  of  forty  square beinge  among  the  small  lotts,  latly 

layd   out   in   the   Towne,    the   lott   bounded on   the 

East  by  a  hie-way  of  two  Rods  wide  on  the  South  by  the 
broad  Street,  on  the  west  by  a  lott  granted  unto  Nicholas 
Easton  now  in  -  posessition  of  William  Edwards,  on  the 
North  by  a  lott  granted  unto  Walter  Wood. 

Order  of  -  free-men 30th  day  of  July   1673 

to  confirme said  Lott  of  forty  foot  square, third  day 

of  February  1676 

Weston  Clarke,  Towne  Clerke. 
freemen  of  Newport  to  Michall  Kaley. 

freemen    of    Newport Asembled    January    Twenty 

eight  1673 granted  unto  Michall  Kaley  a  house  lott  of 

forty  foot  square beinge  among  the  small  lott layd 

forth  in  the  Towne the  Lott  bounded on  the  west 


109 

by  a  lott  laid  out,  but  not  yet  granted  on  the  South  by  a  Lott 
granted  unto  William  Weeden,  on  the  East  by  a  hie  way  of 
two  rod  wide,  on  the  North  by  a  lott  granted  Robert  Taylor 

Ropemakr Order  of   freemen Thirtith  day  of  July 

1673    to   confirme the    said    Lott, 25th    of|   October 

1676. 

Weston  Clarke  Towne  Gierke 
[152]     Joan  Reape  to  Zacheriah  Rhodes. 

Joan  Reape to  the  performance  of  ye  will  of  my 

Husband    Deceassed Zacheriah    Rhodes    of    Paw- 

tuxett who dispossed  of  his  lands  on  the  South  side 

of  the  Pawtuxett  river among  three  of  his  Sonns I 

Doe appoint  my  sonn  Malachi  Rhodes  to  take that 

Land    lying    next    to    Pawtuxett    Falls which    Land    is 

bounded  on  the  North  side  by  Pawtuxett  river,  on  the  South 

by  a  fence ,  on  the  East  by  the  cove  or  harbour  by  a 

small  brooke  that  runs  a  Cross  the  end  of  it  into  the  great 
river 28th  day  of  February  1676 

77 
Wit.  Jean  X  Reape 

Samuell  Gorton  junr.  her  marke 

Thomas  X  Eldrich 
his  marke. 

Testimony  of  posession  by  John  Albro  and  George  Lawton 
August  the  4th  1677. 

Wee  John  Albro  and  George  Lawton,  both  of  Ports- 
mouth  doe  by  Vertue  of  the  power given  to  us 

of  Captn  Thomas  Clarke  Iron  Hunger,  and  Ann  Clarke  his 

wife have  taken  posession  of  the  Northermost  halfe  of 

Prudence   Island   with  all  buildings belonginge   together 

with  all  the  Lands  that  did  ever  belong  to  Mr  Parker  father 

to Ann  Clarke, Viz.  the  houses,  which  stands  upon 

the    Northermost    part    of    the    Island    towards    Providence 

Neck 

Wit. 

The  X  marke  of 
John  Snooke. 
Henry  Mattesson 


no 

[153]     Claim  of  Robert  Hassard  on  his  father. 

my  sonn  Robert  Hassard  of Portsmouth doth 

claime intrest    unto    my    lands    in Portsmouth    by 

vertue  of  some writeinge I  Thomas  Hassard 

of  Portsmouth doe protest I    never    made    any 

writeinge  to  my sonn  Robert Only  in  a  will  drawne 

by  mr  John  Porter  at  George  Lawtons  about  Thirty  yeares 

past my  said  sonn  was  to  have  had  my  lands  and  my 

other  children  my  Moveables, Since  which  time  I 

make  Voyd  and  Null the  wills And  doe abolish 

heire-ship to  my  son  Robert  Hassard sixt  day 

of  August 1677 my.  wife  Martha  Hassard Sole 

Executrix of  my  Estate 

Wit.  The  marke  X  of 

Francis  Gisborne  Thomas  Hassard 

David  Lake 
Delivered    before    me    Samuell   Wilbore   Asistant   6    day    of 

August  1677 
[154]     Will  of  Thomas  Hassard. 

Thomas   Hassard   of    Portsmouth doe   hereby  will 

my     land      in Portsmouth Containeinge Thirty 

acres accordinge    to a deed    of    Bargaine 

made  by  me  unto  Thomas  Shriefe  of  Portsmouth date 

the  tenth  day  of  December 1666 by  which  deed 

Land  is  declared  to  be  Mine and  after unto my 

beloved  Yoakfellow  Martha  Hassard unto  my  daughter 

Hannah  Wilcocks  one  shillinge  to  be  paid  in  Silver  quoyne 

unto  my  daughter  Martha  Potter  wife  of  Icobod  Potter 

of    Portsmouth one   shillinge all    former   wills 

made     voyde Thirteenth     day     of     November one 

Thowsand  Six  hundred  seventy  and  six. 

Wit.  Thomas  X  Hassard. 

Thomas  Gould.  his  marke 

John  Coggeshall 

John  Heath. 
[155]     John  Paine  to  Samuell  Apleton. 
John  Paine  of  Boston Merchant for Sev- 


Ill 

erall  leg;icies  amounting  to  the  sum  Fifteen  hundred  pounds, 

payable  accordinge  to  the  Will of  my Father  William 

Paine  Late  of  Boston unto  the  three  children  of  Samuell 

Apleton  of  Ipswich  in  the  County  of  Essix Gent 

Have sold unto Samuell    Apleton All    my 

Rif^^ht in  the  Island  called Prudence as  houses 

lands  fences  wood  Timber  Waters Mineralls Pro- 
vided  If John    Paine shall    pay at    Boston 

the  sum  of  fifteen  hundred  pounds answerable  to 

the  said  Will, Then  this Deed  of  Mortgage be 

of  None  Efect, Twentith  day  of  January one 

Thowsand  Six  hundred  sixty  and  three 

Wit.  Jno.  Paine 

Thomas  Danforth 
Joell  X  acoomis 
Caleb  Cheeshahte  au  nuk 
John  Evins 

John   Paine before  me  this  21th   day 

of  January  1663 made  acknowlidgment 

of  this  Deed 

Danill  Gookin 

1676 Entred in Records of       Suffolk 

p Edward  Rawson  Secretary  June  6t  1677 I  doe  cer- 

tefie  that  Captn  Daniell  Gookin  was  Majestrate Edward 

Rawson  was  Secretary  63  at  the  same  time 

Samuell  Symonas  Dept.  Govr. 
[156]     William  Brenton  &c.  to  William  Clarke. 

five    and    Twentith    day    of    Aprill 1674,    Between 

William  Brenton,  John  Hull,  Benedict  Arnold,  John  Porter, 
Samuell  Wilbore,  Samuell  Wilson  &  Thomas  Mumford  of 
the  one  part  and  William  Clarke  Weaver  of  the  other  part 

for five     pounds      Currant      pay paid by 

William    Clarke Have    Sold a Neck    of    Land 

Containeinge one    hundred    Acres beinge    part 

of   Land  in   the   Narragansett   Cuntry beinge   about   six 

Miles  Westerly  of  Petacomscutt  Rock,  and  bounded on 

the  East  partly  by  a  hie  way  and  partly  by  a  pond,  on  the 


112 

south  by  a  small  river  as  it  runns  under  the  North  side  of 
the  ^reat  swamp,  on  the  North  partly  by  a  hie  way  and  partly 
by  a  great  river,  called  Chipsuck  River,  and  on  the  west  by 
the  Chipsuck  river, if any  minneralls  shall  be  dis- 
covered  shall  be  devided  into  Eight  Equall  shares,  seven 

shall remaine  unto  us and  one  Eight  part to  the 

use  of  him.  .... 
Wit. 

Freeborn  Harte  John  Hull 

Richard  Baily  Benedict  Arnold 

Joseph  Morry  John  Porter 

Samuell  X  Helmes  Samuell  Wilson 

his  marke  Samuell  Wilbur 

William  Cadman.  Thomas  Mumford 

Asignement  of  Land  to  John  Peirce  from  William  Clarke 

By Letter     of     Aturny     from William     Clarke     I 

Jireh  Bull  of  Pettacomscutt,  doe  asigne the  Land  therein 

Mentioned   unto  John   Peirce  of   Portsmouth   Mason 6t 

day  of  September  1675 

Wit.  Jireh  Bull 

Henry  Beere 
Rowse  Helme 
Richard  Baily 
[157]     Jireh  Bull  for  William  Clarke  to  John  Pearce. 

Jireh    Bull    of    Pettacomscutt am Authorized, 

by  William  Clarke  late  of  Pettacomscutt to sell 

Land,   granted   unto   him   neere    Pettacomscutt for 

Fifteen  pounds payd by  John  Pearce  of  Ports- 
mouth  Masson, Land    which    is    a    Neck lyinge 

about  six  miles  Westerly  from  Pettacomscutt  Rock  & 

Containeth one  hundred  acres, bounded on  the 

East  partly  by  a  hie  way,  and  partly  by  a  pond,  and  on  the 
South  by  a  small  river  as  it  runs  under  the  North  Side  of  a 
great  Swamp,  on  the  North  partly  by  a  hie  way  and  partly 
by  a  great  River  called  Chipsuck  river,  and  on  the  West  by 

the Chipsuck    river any    Minnerralls    shall    be    dis- 

couvered shall  be  devided  into  eight  Equall  parts,  Seven 


"3 

unto  the  purchassers And  one  Eight  part unto 

John  Peirce sixth  day  of  August one  Thowsand 

six  hundred  seventy  &  five 

Wit.  Jireh  Bull 

Henry  Beere 

Rowse  Helme 

Richard  Baily. 
[158]     M\;antonomey  to  Randall  Houldon,  &c. 

Myaptanamy  Chef e  sachim  of  the  Nanheygansett  have 

sold  unto  the  persons  heare  Named  one  percell  of  Lands 

Lyinge  upon  the  West  side  of the  sea  Called  Sohomes 

Bay  from  Copassuetuxet  over  against  A  Litle  Hand  in  the 
sayd  Bay  beinge  the  north  Bounds,  and  the  outmost  point  of 

that  Neck called  Shawhomett,  beinge  the  South  bounds 

from  the  sea  shore  of  Each  Boundery,  Upon  a  straite  line 

Westward  Twenty  Miles, the  proportion accordinge 

to  the  mapp  under  written beinge  the  forme  of  it,  unto 

Randall  Houldon,  John  Greene,  John  Weicks,  Francis  Weston, 
Samuell  Gorton,  Richard  Waterman,  John  Warner,  Richard 
Carder,    Samson   Shotton,    Robert    Potter,   William   Wuddall 

For  one  hundred  and  forty  4  fathom  of  Wampum  peage 

Twelfth  day  of  January  1642, 

Wit.  Myanto  X  nomey 

Totanomans 

X  marke 

Sachim  of 

Showhomett  Pumham 

Jano  X  his  marke 

John  Greene 
[159]     Roger  Williams  to  mr  Parker  of  Boston 
Providence  13.  May  1678  (so  called) 

Roger  Williams  of  Providence about  thirty  yeares 

since  out  of  the love  I  bare  to honnor.  Gentlen.  mr 

John   Winthrop   Senr.    ( the   first   Governr   at    Boston) 

to  be  my  halfe  in  the  purchass  of  the  Island  called  Pru- 
dence Island  (Chibbssueasickk)  in  English lyinge  in  (the 

soe  Caled)    Cowessett  and  Nanhygonsett  Bay The 


114 

Honoed.  man,  and  I  did  Joyntly purchass  the  said  Island 

of  the  2  ^reat  sachims Cunnounicus  and  Miantunnomu 

whose  favor  it  pleassed  God  to  give  me That Gentlm. 

and   myself e   injoyed   the Island   in   peace  untill   I   was 

forced  (beinge  in  want)  to  sell  my  halfe  to  mr  Parker  (my 

freind  of   Boston)   and  I  have heard  that mr 

Winthrop  Gave  his  halfe  to  his  sonn  mr  Stephen  Winthrop 

since   which Transfer   mr    Winthrops   Right   and   mine, 

unto  divers  others to  mr  Paine  of  Boston  Deceassed.  and 

mr  William  Browne  of  Salem  unto  whom I  humbly  beg 

of  God  a  blessing in  this  Barbarous  wilderness 

Wit.  Roger  Williams 

Thomas  Olny  snior 

Joseph  Williams 

Samuell  Comstock 

May  the  13th  1678 'before  me. 

Thomas  Olny  Asistant 

Testemony  of  Nathaniell  Colson  and  Stephen  Cooke. 

Nathaniell  Coalson  aged  thirty  yeares and  Stephen  Cooke 

aged  twenty  three  yeares they  beinge  at  Prudence  Island, 

heard  Benjamin  Browne  speake  to  the  Inhabitants  of  the  south 

end to  remove  to  the  North  side  of  the  devission  line  of 

the  Island  that  he  might  take  posession  of  the  South  Moyety 
of  the  Island  in  the  behalfe  of  his  father  William  Browne 

senr.  of  Salem, and  wee  did  see  sd.  Benjamin  Browne 

take    posession William    Allin beinge    present 

the  Twenty  seventh  day  of  Aprill  one  Thowsand  six  hundred 

seventy  and  Eight 

William   Allin   of   Prudence   Island   aged    (44  yeares)    doth 

Testefy  to  the  truth  of above by  Nathaniell  Colson 

and  Stephen  Cooke 

2e.  of  May  1678  Samuell  Gorton  Asista. 

Devision  of  Prudence  Island. 

Nathaniell  Coltson Testefyeth,  that eighteen  months 

since,  I  beinge  appointed  by  Joshua  Coggeshall  Coll.  Crowne 
and  William  Alline  of  the  one  side  and  Benjamin  Browne  of 
the    other to    survay    Prudence    Island,    and    now 


"5 

desired  to  devide  the  sd  Island  in  Equall  halfs  between  them, 
have  be^n  the  Hne  at  a  Rock  neer  halfe  a  rodd  on  the  south 
side  a  dwelling  house  on  the  west  side  of  sd  Island  in  which 
John  Davis  now  dwelleth,  and  from  thence  East  twenty- 
three  degrees  South  to  the  waeter  on  the  East  side  of  said 

Island da.  27  da.  Aprill  1678: 

2d.  of  May  1678  Samuell  Gorton  Asistant. 
[160]     William  Browne — Land  Recorded. 

William  Browne  of Salem beinge in 

posession  of that  southermost  end  and  halfe  of  Prudence 

Island    lyinge    in    Coweessett    and    Nanhygonsett    Bay 

bounded  Northerly  by  a  line  began  at  a  rock  on  the  West  side 

of Island,  neer  halfe  a  rodd  on  the  south  side  a  dwellinge 

house  in  which  John  Davis  now  dwelleth,  and  from  thence 
East  twenty  three  degrees  south  to  the  water  on  the  East  side 

of  the Island,  and  is  on  all  other  parts  bounded  by  the 

sea  or  salt  water with  all  uplands,  meddows,  woods 

dwelling houses, Barnes,  Orchards,  Gardens,  accord- 
ing  to   a    law    made   the    22th    of    May    1662 All 

premises Ratefyed    Recorded One   and   twenty   day 

of  May One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Seventy  and  Eight. 

John  Sanford,  Recorder. 
[161]     John  Crandall  to  Jeremiah  and  Heber  Crandell. 

John  Crandall  of  Newport sonn  and  heire  of  John 

Crandall      of      Newport Deceassed unto      my 

brothers  Jeremiah  Crandall  and  Heber  Crandall  now  resi- 
dents  in   Newport, and   in   the  tuition   of   their  mother 

Hannah     Crandall have     given, a     certaine     house 

(formerly  the  Mantion  house  of  my  Father  John  Crandall) 

with  two  hundred  acres belonginge  both  upland  and 

Meddow, lyeinge in Westerly    alias    Squoma- 

cutt, bounded On    the    West   by   land    of    Nicholas 

Cotterills,  on  the  East  by  the  fresh  meddows,  on  the  North 
by  Pawcatuck  river,  on  the  south  by  land  formerly  belonginge 

to   Edward   Smith   late   of    Newport   deceassed with   all 

Edieffices,    Gardens,    Orchards, thirteenth    day   of 

May one  Thousand  six  hundred  seventy  Eight. 


ii6 

Wit.  John  X  Crandall 

William  Turpin.  his  marke 

Thomas  Ward. 
[162]     Land  of  Richard  Bulger  to  Joseph  Anthony. 

William  Hall have  layd  out  of  the  Land  of  Richard 

Bulgar to   Joseph   Anthony   two   Acres in  two  per- 

cells one  acre  upon  the  Rocky  hill,  bounded  North  with 

the  Land  of Joseph,  East  by  Pocassett  river.  South  by 

land of.  . ...  .Richard  West  partly  by  a  hie-way  and 

partly  by Land  of Richard — the  other  acre  bounded 

North   with Land   of Joseph   East  with   a  hie-way, 

South    by Land    of Richard,    bounded    with    foure 

Stakes  two   rod   from   the   fence  of Richard  as  now   it 

stands  West  upon  the  great  Cove layd  out 29th  of 

July  1674 

Witnes:     William  Hall. 

John  Anthony  Junr. 

Wee are satisfyed  with  the premisses 

Wit.  Richard  Bulger 

John  Anthony  Junir.  Joseph  Anthony. 

William  Hall. 

William  Brenton  to  Francis  Brayton. 

William  Brenton  of  Boston  have sold  unto  Francis 

Brayton  of  Rhode  Island one  house  and  twelve  acres  of 

Land, belonginge in  the  Towne  of  Portsmouth 

bounded  on  the  south  with  the  Land  of  mr  Richard  Smith, 
and  on  the  North  side  with  the  Land  of  William  Baulston, 
for forty  nine  pound Twenty  fift  day  of  Sep- 
tember sixteen  hundred  and  Fifty. 
Wit.  William  Brenton 

William  Sanford  Martha  Brenton 

Peleg  Sanford. 
[163]     Wrastlin  Brewster  to  Thomas  Durphey. 

Wrastling   Brewster   &  John    Rogers of    Duxbury 

in New-Plymoth for sixty      five      pounds 

mony   of    New-England paid    by    Thomas   Durphey   of 

Portsmouth have sold one      Moyety of      a 


117 

share of  a  freemans  Lott  of  Land beinge  at  Tanton 

River  in New-Plymoth in  Number  the  lo.  lott 

buttith  westward  upon  the  sd.  River  and  Extendeth  Eastward 
four  mile  from  the  said  River,  Southward  with  the  land  of 
Major  James  Cudworth  and  Northward,  with  the  Land  of 
mr  Richard  More,  bounded  and  Marked  on  the  sd  Northerly 
side  with  a  Chesnutt  tree  near  the  water  side  below  the  path, 
and  a  Red  oake  tree  above  the  path  Marked  &  Numbered  lo 

on  the  Southerly  side  &  -ii-  on  the  Northerly  side,  which 

halfe  Lott  is  to  begin  at  the trees  &  to  extend  southward 

to  the  Midle  of  the  sd.  lo  Lott,  and  there  to  be  devided  from 

the  other  halfe  of Lott,  And  alsoe one  halfe  part 

of  a  freemans  share  of Meddow,  at  a  place  called  Scipi- 

can,  which  sd  Land  and  meddow  was  formerly  of  Mr  Love 

Brewster  one  of  the  old  freemen  ofif New-Plymoth 

deceassed : twenty  ninth  day  of  May:  1678: 

Wit.  Wrestlin  Bruster 

John  Gushing  John  Rogers 

Nathll.  Thomas acknowlidged     by    Wrestlin     Brustor 

and  John  Rogers Before  Josiah  Winslow  Govr. 

[164]     Gachanaquant  to  Randall  Houldon  &   Samuell  Gor- 
ton. 
Gachanaquant   alias   Tassaconohutt kindnesses    Re- 
ceived   from   Gaptn.   Randall   Houldon   and    Samuell   Gorton 

senior,   both   of   Warwick have given one   per- 

cell  of  Land  by  the  Name  of  Nannaquoksett  being  a  Neck  of 

land beinge    upon Nanhygansett    Bay    over    against 

the    Midle   of   Quononoqutt   Island and   over   against   a 

small   Hand   in  the    Bay   lying    about    betwixt    Quononoqutt 
Island  the  above-said   Neck  of   land  called   Arokquanessett ; 

with  free  leave  to  feed  their  Gattell  upon  my  land  lying 

about  the  same  neck  provided  they  wrong  not  the  Indians 

corne    in    the    sumer    time    from planting till    it    be 

gathered  in And  I  am  greatly  provoaked  to  my  free  act 

with  respect  unto  that  great  sachim  of  old  England 

of    the fame   I   heare   of   him,    to    whom these    my 


ii8 

friends  are servants May 27th  day accord- 
ing to  the  English  account  1659 
Wit. 

Newcom  X  his  mark  Caganaquanak  X  his  marke. 

Indian  Alequaoomett  X  Eldist  son  of 

the  marke  of  the  abovsd. 

Awashause  X  Indian  sachim 

Walter  Todd 

Amos  Westcott — : 

little  Island being  in  the  River  or  Bay  which  Island 

is    called Arockquonosett is    not    spescefied    in    the 

Deed  wherein is  mentioned a  percell  of  Land 

lying  between River  or  Bay  and  that  comon  path  or  hie- 
way  in  the  cuntry  of  the  Nanhygansett,  which  gift  had   a 

being  before of  a  promise  made  by  my  Ansesters 

yeares  ago to  the men  Randall  Houldon  and  Samuel! 

Gorton the    said    small    Island was given 

with  the Neck lyeth in  a map  drawne  out 

with  pen  and  inke 

Witnes  English  Cachanaquaneck  X  his  marke 

Samuell  Gorton  junir.  alias  Tasseconohutt 

Witnes  Indian 

X  Mautotanamitt 
[165]     Massup  consents  to  Deed  of  Cachananquant. 

Pessicus   alias   Mawsupp   of   the   Nanhygansett   though 

not  present  at  the  writing  of  this  Deed penned  on 

both  sides this  paper did give  my consent 

19th  day  of  Septemr.  1667 : 

Testes :     John  Green  Massup  alias 

Phillip  Green  Sucquans  his  X  marke 

Quoanock  X  his  marke 

Deed  of  Cachanaquant  confirmed. 

Cojanaquont declares he  was  not  in  drink  but  sober 

and when  he  sold  the  land  to  Major  Atherton  and 

the    Baymen    in    presence    of    Richard    Smith    he 

excepted  the  Neck  of  Land  herein given  to  Captn  Ran- 


119 

dall  Houldon  and  mr   Samuell  Gorton  senr.  and never 

made  any  lease to  Richard  Smith  for  more  then  three 

yeares. 

John  Green  Asistant 

Warwick  i8th  of  May  1668. 

Samuell  Gorton  and  John  Gorton. 

Samuell  Gorton  senr.  Professor  the  Misterys  of  Christ. 

and  purchasser  of  Shaomett  Inhabitant  of Warwick 

unto   my sonn)  John    Gorton doe give.  .  .  .  .one 

third  part  of  my Lands beyond  the Towne  of 

Warwick  Westward  the  other  two  thirds  being  betwixt  my 

sonn  Samll.  Gorton  junr.  and  my  sonn  Benjamin  Gorton 

to  be  devided  as  the  Major  part  of  my  three  sonns shall 

agree unto  my  sonn  John  Gorton my  share  of  Med- 

dow  at  Taskeunck Twenty  seventh  of  November  1677: 

Wit.  Samuell  Gorton  Senr. 

John  Greene  Asistant 

Randall  Howldon 
[166]     Will  of  Nicholas  Easton. 

my   son   Nicholas my   houses   and   Lands   and   my 

daughter  Elizabeth the  Corner  house  and  Land  that  I 

had  of  Adam  Wooly  and  alsoe  that  Land  that  by  my  Gran 
father  was  given  to  my  sister  Mary  which  I  bought  of  hir 

Husband  Weston  Clarke  My  plate my  son one  halfe 

and  my  daughter  the  other  halfe ;  Christopher  Holder  to  have 
my  best  hatt  my  Uncle  Daniell  halfe  a  peece  of  Worsted 
Chamlett,  my  uncle  John  Easton  my  old  horse  my  mother  to 
have  my  gray  paceing  horse,  my  Brother  John  to  have  all  my 

wearing  apparrill  Except  handkercher  and  Neckercloths 

these  I  give  to  my  sonn  Nicholas ;  my  small  Lott  and  house 
at  Towne,  I  give  to  Christopher  Holder  and  my  Uncle  John 
Easton,  or  to  whome  they  shall  asigne  it  to  for  to  be  improved 

to  give   in   yearly  to   the  publick    stock   of my    friends 

called  Quakers,  and  I  give to  my  brother  John,  Thirty 

pounds to  help  build  a  Towne  house, to  my  sister 

Mary  a  barrill  of  porke,  and  a  barrill  of  porke  to  my  sister 
Patience my  son  I  leave  to  the  Tuition  of  my  brother 


120 

John  iintill  my  Son  be  Twenty  one  yeare  old my  Daugh- 
ter,  to  the  Tuition  of  Amy  Borden  untill  she  be  Marriead 

or  twenty  yeare  old my  brother  John  to  be Executor 

My  Overseers  are   Christopher  Holder,   Daniell  Gould 

and  John  Easton, 

Newport  :i5  d.  ii  m.  1676.  Nicholas  Easton. 

Wit. 

John  Easton  senior 

John  Easton  Junir. 

to  my  brother  Peter Twenty  shillings  and  Twenty 

shillings  to  my  brother  Joshua,  and  ten  Shillings  to  my  Sister 
Elizabeth,  and  my  sister  waite  shall  have  a  silver  spoone  of 

ten  shillings  price — my  Indian  Squa  to  be  free my  Indian 

childe  to  be  free  at  twenty  five  yeares  of  age to  Joseph 

Bryer  my  best  sadle 

15  d.  II  m.  1676 

John  Easton  senior     John  Easton  Junior. 


John  Easton  senr.  and  John  Easton  junr 5th  of   i   mo 

called   March    1676-7 did   affirme  the  afore written 

Will of   Nicholas  Easton   (deceassed)    late  of   Newport. 

Robert  Malins  Dept.  Gierke  of 
Gouncell. 
[167]     Ralph  Earll  to  Thomas  Butts. 

Ralph    Earll    of Dartmouth    in New-Plymoth 

Thomas    Butts    of Portsmouth have sold 

one  fourth  part  of  medow  belonging  to  a  purchassers 

share    within Dartmoth,    and one    Eight    part     of 

Upland  belonging  to  a  whole  purchassers  share,  and  alsoe 

tenn  acres  of  Upland  within said  Towne,  the  which  per- 

cells  of  Upland  is.  . ...  .at.  .Gocksett,  at  the  Eastermost  side 

of Ralphs  Land, To  be  Holden  of  his  Majtie 

as    the    manner    of    East    Greenwich Twentith    day    of 

November One  Thowsand  six  hundred  sixty  and  Eight. 

Wit.  Ralph  X  Earll. 

William  Earll.  his  marke 

William  Hall. 


121 

[i68]     John  Brif]^s  to  Thomas  Brigs. 

John    Brigs    of Portsmouth Yeoman unto 

my  second  sonn  Thomas  Brigs Doe give Thomas 

Brigs  and  Mary  his  wife one  fourth  share of  Land 

lying in  Dartmoth part  whereof   is layd  out  at 

Ponagansett Thirty  five  Acres bounded  North 

by  the  Land  by  me  given  to  my  Sonn  John  Brigs  East  by  the 

Cove  or  Creek,  South  by  the  Land  of  me and  West  by 

Land  lying  in  Comon Eleventh  day  of   March one 

Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  Eight 

Wit.  John  X  Brigs  senr. 

John  Sanford  his  marke. 

Richard  Tarr 
[169]     John  Simmons — Will. 

John  Simmons  Resident  neer  Tanton unto  my  Chil- 
dren Mary — my  Eldist  Daughter,  and  John  Simmons  my 
Eldist  sonn,   and   Rememberance   Simmons  my  second   sonn 

and  Edward  Simmons  my  third  sonn doe give 

all  my  Estate Either Lands  Goods  household  stuff 

mony  Cattell to  be  Equally  devided doe appoint 

my wife    Martha    Simmons sole    Overseer first 

day   of    February One   Thowsand   six   hundred   seventy 

Eight  or  nine. 

Wit.  John  Simmdns 

Mathew  X  Grinell 
his  marke 

John  Heath 

Elizabeth  Holderbee 

Henry  Brightman  to  Mathew  Boomer. 

Henry  Brightman  of  Portsmouth for five  and 

Forty  pounds  of  currant  silver  mony  of  New-England 

paid by  Mathew  Boomer  of  Newport Have sold 

one  halfe  of  a  Lott lying on  the  East  side  of 

Tanton  River  in  the  Collony  of  New-Plymoth  being  the  fourth 

in  Number  and  the  Moiety sold  is  the  Northmost  halfe 

bounded on    the    north     by    land late of 

Samuell  House on  the   South  by  Land late of 


122 

Robert      Hassard with     all Medows belonging, 

the    medows    at    Scipecan    only    Excepted sixt    day    of 

March 1676-7. 

Wit.  ^  Henry  Brightman 

Thomas  Ward.  X 

Richard  Baily.  his  marke 

[170]     Joan  Brightman  consents  to  Deed. 

Joan  Brightman  wife  of Henry  Brightman  doe 

give  my  consent  unto  the  Deed sixt  day  of  March  1676-7 

Wit.  Joane  X  Brightman 

Thomas  Ward  her  marke 

Richard  Baily. 
Owned  by  Henry  Brightman thirtith   day  of   May  one 

thousand  six  hundred  seventy  &  Eight. 

John  Albro  Asistant 
[171]     Mathew  Boomer  to  John  Reade 

Mathew    Boomer    of     Newport for two    and 

twenty  pounds  and  tenn  shillings  currant  silver  mony  of  New- 
England  paid by    John    Reade    of     Newport 

Corwainer, have sold one    quarter   part of 

Land  lying on  the  East  side  of  Tanton  River and 

is  the  Moiety  of  a  halfe  share which  I purchased  of 

Henry  Brightman, with  all Medows the  Medows 

at  Scipecan  only  Excepted Twentith  day  of  June 

1677. 

Wit.  Mathew  Boomer 

John  Drury 

Josias  Lyndon 

William  Hiscox 

Richard  Baily 
This  deed  was  owned  this  thirty  day  of  May  one  Thousand 

six  hundred  seventy  and  Eight  by  Mathew  Boomer  before 

mee  John  Albro  Asistant 

[172]     Inventory  of  mr.  John  Alcock  Deced. 

Inventory   of Estate   of   mr.   John   Alcock   Deced. 

amongst  his  Children August 8th  1677. 


123 


House  &  house  Lott ...  5  Acres 

Land  upon ....  Meeting  house  hills  at  Roxbury 

20  Acres  more  upon  ditto  hill 

25  acres  of  Land  at  Mudy  River 

Land  &  medows  at  Boston  Gate 

Stony  river  Lott  wch.  Jno.  Graunt  Occupies 

17  acres  at  Stony  river  in  mr  Clarkes  hand 

2/3  of  Land  at  Ainsworth  hill 

Land  at  Maulbery  with stock 

Land  at  Assabeth  with  stock 

Charges  upon  bringing  up  Georg  Alcock 

Sum  is 

Besides  Land  at  Block  Island  &  land  at  long  Island,  and  land 
at  Merimack  not  yett  apprissed  and  a  great  part  of  the  move- 
ables not  yett  devided.  It  being  agreed  upon  that  John 
Williams  shall  have  one  3d  part  of  Assabeth  which  comes  to 
£55-i8s-4d  and  the  remainder  of  his  share  at  Block  Island 
according  to  apprisement  wch.  sd.  £55-i8s-4d  being  deducted, 
out  of  the  whole  there  will  Remaine  1359-13-8-  to  be  devided 
into  8-Equall  Shares. 


£ 

s 

d 

160  : 

00  : 

00 

80: 

00  : 

00 

60: 

00  : 

CX) 

40  : 

00  : 

:  00 

240  : 

:  00  : 

:  00 

80  : 

00  : 

;  00 

85: 

:  00  : 

:  00 

80  : 

;  00  ; 

:  00 

218  : 

:  02  : 

;  00 

167: 

:  15  : 

;  00 

204  : 

:  15  : 

:  00 

1415  : 

:  12  : 

:  00 

Each   parte   being    —    —    —     —    — 
To  George  Alcock-2  shares 
Expences  upon  Education  and  payment 
of  Debts  &  mr  Greens  sallery    —    — 
House  &  house  lott  about  5  Acres    — 


To  John  Alcock  one  share 

17  Acres  of  Land  at  Stony  river  in 

mr  Clarks  hand    085  :  00  :  00 
1/2  of   .  .   Land  at  Ainsworth  Hill  040  :  00  :  00 

1/6  of   . .   Land  &  stock  at  Maulburry  036  :  07  :  00 


£ 

S. 

d. 

169  : 

19  : 

2K 

204  : 

15  : 

00 

160  : 

00  : 

;  00 

364  : 

15  : 

:  00 

161  :  07  :  00 


124 

To  Paussgrave  Alcock     i  share 

.  .  lot  at  stony  river  in  Graunts  hands 

1/2   .  .   Land  at  Ainsworth  hill  

1/6  .  .   Land  &  stock  at  Maulburry  - 


£ 

s 

d 

080 

:  00  ; 

:  00 

040  ; 

:  00  : 

:  00 

036 

:  07  ; 

:  00 

156  :  07  :  00 


To  Elizaibeth  Alcock  one  share. 

1/3  of   . .   Land  &     stock  at  Maulbery  072  :  14  :  00 

1/2   .  .   Land  at  Mudy  river  020  :  00  :  00 

1/2  the  2  parts  on  the  Meeting  house  hill.  070  :  00  :  00 


162  :  14  :  00 


To  Joanna  Alcock. 

1/3  of  the  land  and  stock  at  Maulbery  072  :  14  :  cx) 

1/2  the  land  at  Muddy  river  020  :  00  :  00 

1/2  the  2  parsells  on  the  meeting  house  hill —  070  :  00  :  00 


To  Joshua  Lamb  one  share. 

halfe  the  land  &  medow  at  Boston  gate 

1/3  of  the  land  at  Assabath 


To  Zacheriah  Whitman  one  share. 

..1/2  the  land  &  medow  at  Boston  gate- 

1/3  of  the  land  at  Assabath 


162  : 

:  14  ; 

:  00 

120  : 

055  : 

;  00  : 
:  18  : 

:  00 
:  04 

175  : 

:  18  : 

04 

120  : 
055  : 

00  : 
18  : 

00 
04 

175  : 

18  : 

04 

The  above  devission  the  children  &  Guardians  of  the  children 
of  the  sd  John  Alcock  deceased. .  .consent. .  .to.  .  .8th 
of  August  1677 

John  Hull    Gaurdian 

John  Williams. 

Zacher  Witman  for  himself e 
&  as  Gaurdian. 

John  Alcock  Joshua  Lamb 


125 

The     party s. .  .appearing     in      Court     August     9:  1677... 

Jsa.  Addington  Cler. 
.  .  .taken  out  of  the  Records  of  the  County  Court  of  Suffolke. 

pr  Jsa.  Addington  Cler. 
Boston. .  . 

[173]  Inventory  of  John  Alcock. 

Inventory.  .  .of ..  .John  Alcock   (of   Roxbury  deceassed)    At 
Block  Island  alias  New-Shorrum. 

£        s.      d 
. .  .  Eight  part  of  said  Island  085  :  00  :  00 

8  Cowes  and  8  oxen  &  10  sheep  035  :  00  :  00 


120  :  00  :  00 


April  7.    1679. 

Robert  Guthrig 
his 
Turmutt  X  Rose 
marke. 
...Book  of  Records   for    Block    Island    and  the  Towne  of 
New-Shorrum. 

Robert  Guthreg  Towne  Clerk. 
John  Williams — Land  Recorded. 
.  .  .mr  John  Williams  of  New-Shorrum  alias  Block  Island 
.  .  .  being . .  .  in . .  .  posesion ...  of  land  lying . . .  in . .  .  Newport 
...lately  purchassed  of  Nathaniell  Dickins...of  Newport 
. .  .containinge.  .  .Twenty  acres.  .  .bounded. ,  .on  the  East  by 
land... of  Mary  Timberlake  on  the  South  by  land... of  mr 
John  Easton  senr.  on  the  Southwest  by  land  that  was  Robert 
Griffins,  and  the  head  there  of  lying  Westerly  against  the 
land... of  Henry  Bull,  and  alsoe  on  the  Southwesterly  side 
lyes  against  the  land... of  Jireh  Bull  and  Northerly  on  the 
great  street. .  .with  all. .  .Dwellinge  or  Mansion  houses 
out  houses,  Barnes,  Orchards.  .  .Gardens.  .  .according  to  law 
made.  .  .the  22th  of  May  1662,  every  part  of  the.  .  .premises 
is  hereby  Ratefyed. .  .Recorded  loth  of  May. . .  1679: 


126 

[174]  Thomas  Hicke  to  Lawrence  Springer. 
...Thomas  Hicke  of  Portsm-. .  .Carpenter. .  .twenty  two 
pounds  tenn  shillings  Currant  Silver  mony  of  New-England, 
. .  .  paid  by  Lawrence  Springer  of  the  Collony  of  New- 
Plymoth . . .  planter . . .  Have . . .  sold . . .  one  Quarter  share . . . 
of  Land, ...  being  at  Seconett  and  places  Adjacent. .  .being 
formerly  the  land  of  Thomas  Pinchin  of  Scittuate  and  sonn 
to  Thomas  Pinchin  senir,  one  lott...is  the  three  and 
Twentith  lott . . .  with  all . .  .  other  allotments  purchased  and 
unpurchased  from  the  Indians , . .  Except  some  tracts  of  land, 
that  the  Company  have  seen  cause  to  dispose  off. .  .Eight  day 
of  May  One  Thousand  six  hundred  seventy  Nine. 
Wit.  Thomas  Hix. 

Henry  Lilly. 

Thomas  Ward. 

Lawrance  Springer  to  Robert  Gibs. 
...Lawrance  Springer  late  of  Portsmouth. .  .now  sideinge 
neer  a  Neck  of  Land  called  Puncatas-in  the  Collony  of 
New-Plymoth  planter. .  .for. ,  .twelve  pounds  Sterling  of 
New  England, ..  .paid  by  Robert  Gibs  of  the  same  place 
planter,. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .One  Eight  part  of  a  share... 
lyinge...at  Saconett  and  places  Adjacent. .  .being  Formerly 
the  land  of  Thomas  Pinchin  of  Scittuate  and  sonn  of  Thomas 
Pinchin  senr. .  .lott. .  .is  the  three  and  twentith  lott... 
Twenty  third  day  of  June . . .  One  Thousand  Six  hundred 
seventy  Nine. 

Wit.  Lawrance  X  Springer 

Richard  Barnes  his  marke. 

Thomas  Ward. 
[176]  Francis  Brinley — Land  Recorded. 
. .  .mr  Francis  Brinley  of. .  .Newport. .  .Merchant,  being. . . 
in. .  .posesion,  of ..  .Land. .  .in.  .  .Newport. .  .one  percell  of 
. .  .Land  is  lying. .  .at  Green  End,  containing  thirty  Acres. .  . 
by  him  purchased  of  Daniell  Hinchman. .  .bounded,  on  the 
Southward  by  John  Vaughan  Junr.  and  a  Comon  leading  to 
the  old  mill  of  James  Rogers,  on  the  Eastward  by  a  hie  way 
leading  to  the  said  Comon,  on  the  Northward  by  the  great 


127 

hie  way,  and  on  the  westward  by  the  Comon  leading  to. .  . 
Newport,  And  one  percell  of  Land  Containinge  four 
Acres...  by  him  purchased  of  Stephen  Mumford. .  .bounded. 
Southward  by  the  land  of  John  Horndall,  on  the  Eastward 
by  Land  of  John  Easton,  senior,  on  the  Northward  by  land 
of  John  Maxon,  and  on  the  Westward  by  the  Comon  :  And 
one  percell.  .  .Containing  Thirteen  Acres,  by  him  purchassed 
of  William  Dyre  and  Samuell  Dyre. .  .bounded,  on  the  south- 
ward by  land  lately  of  John  Clarke,  on  the  Eastward  by  land 
of  Roger  Goulding  and  Peleg  Sanford,  on  the  Northward 
and  Westward  by  land  lately  of  Samuell  Dyre, ..  .three 
percell ...  Containge  the  Number  of  forty  Seven  Acres... 
with  all. .  .Dwelling  or  Mansion  houses,  Barnes,  Out  houses, 
Orchards,  Gardens ...  according  to  a  law  made...  the  22th 
of  May  1662  All  .  .  .premisses,  are  hereby  Ratefyed.  .  .Ninth 
day  of  August. . .  1679. 

John  Sanford  Recorder. 
[177]  Carew  Clarke  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Carew  Clarke  of  Newport ...  Edward  Larkin  of  New- 
port .  . .  planter  did .  . .  yeares  part,  purchass .  .  .  Land  herein 
after  Mentioned  of  My  Brother  John  Clarke  of  New- 
port . . .  phisitian  Deceassed . .  .1. . .  release . . .  unto  Thomas 
Ward  of  Newport.  . .  (the. .  .asigne  of. .  .the. .  .Edward  Lar- 
kin )  . .  .  land  lyinge . .  .  in . . .  Newport . . .  Eighteen  Acres . . . 
now  in  the  posession  of  Thomas  Peckham, ...  bounded ...  on 
the  East  by  a  hie  way  belonginge  to  the  said  Towne  on  the 
South  by  land... of  Peter  Easton,  on  the  west  by  land... of 
the  Asignes  of  the  asignes  of  my  Brother  John  Clarke  de- 
ceassed, on  the  North  by  the  hie  way  leading  to  the  said  land 
late  the  farme  of  my... Brother  John  Clarke...,  which  said 
hie  way  partith  the  said  Land,  hereby. .  .Releassed. .  .from 
the  land...  of  Henry  Tew. .  .thirteenth  day  of  June...  One 
Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  Nine. 
Wit.  Carew  Clarke. 

William  Hiscox 

John  Paine. 


128 

Newpor.  .  .July  gth  1679 

. .  .Carew  Clarke. .  .Owned. .  .Deed 

Before  mee  John  Cranston  Cover. 
[178]     Peter  George  to  his  wife  Mary. 

. .  .Peter  George  of  New  Shorrum  (alias  Block  Island)  Yeo- 
man. .  .for. .  .a  Joynture  granted  to  his. .  .wife  Mary  George, 
.  .  .for  her. .  .maintanence. .  .and  for  the  settlinge. .  .of  all. .  . 
lands  and  tennements  together  with  halfe  the  stock  he  hath, 
upon  the  said  Land,  and  one  Negro  man  called  Langoe  (all 
which  Estate.  .  .being  on  New-Shorrum-( alias  Block-Is- 
land )...  unto ...  Mary  George,  and  Simon  Ray,  Turmutt 
Rosse  and  John  Williams  as  Feofees  in  Trust  for  my.  .  .wife 
...all... my  manner  Mesuage  and  farme  Called  a  sixteenth 
part  of  Block-Island  together  with  the  Medows  I  bought  of 
Thomas  Terry. .  .during  her  natural  life. .  .to  my  sonn  Sam- 
uell  after  her  and  my  decease  but  if  he  die  without  Isue..  . 
to  goe  to  my  daughters  Mary,  Hannah,  and  Sarah. .  .Twenty 
Ninth  day  of  July  Sixteen  hundred  Seventy  Nine,... 
Wit.  Peter  X  George 

his  marke. 

Trustram  Dodge. 

Margrett  X  Guthrig 
her  marke. 
[179]     Land  of  John  Paine  to  William  Clarke. 
...Thomas  Fry  Gen.   Serjat  of...Collony  of  Rhode  Island 
...by  Vertue  of  an  Execution. .  .date. .  .22th  of   November 
1677.     .  .  .by  Authorety  of.  .  .the  Genii,  court  of  Tryalls  held 
at  Newport  the  24th  of  October  1677  on. .  .action. .  .by  Wil- 
liam Clarke  plantiff  against  the  Estate  of  the  deceassed  mr 
John  Paine  of  Prudence  Island  defendt,  I  have... given  po- 
session    of... Land    formerly    belonginge    to    the    said    John 
Paine, ..  .three    hundred    and    fifty,   acres. .  .unto. .  .William 
Clarke . .  .  the . .  .  land . .  .  lyinge . . .  in . . .  Land     Called      Boston 
Neck  in  the  Narragansett  Cuntry  and. .  .between  the  land  of 
the  late.,  .captn  Thomas  Willitt  on  the  South,  and  the  Land 
of  mr  John  Browne  on  the  North,. . . 


129 

Wit.  Thomas  Fry  Genii.  Serjat 

Enoch  Place  Senr. 

Enoch  Place  junr. 

John  Kinion. 

VaJluation  of  Land  of  William  Clarke... an  action... by 
William  Clarke  of.  ..Portsmouth.,  .against  the  Estate  of  John 
Paine  late  of  Prudence  Island  Deceassed. .  .date  the  29th  of 
August  1677:  and. .  .Obtaining. .  .a  percell  of  Land...  being 
in  the  Narragansett  Cuntry  on  a  place  called  Boston  Neck 
beinge  the  halfe  of  a  share. .  .between  Captn  John  Browne 
of  Swansy  and  the  fore-said  John  Paine,  and  the  said  John 
Painee  part  was  to  be  the  south  side  thereof. .  .Wee. .  .being 
desired  to  Vallue. .  .the. .  .land. .  .Wee  doe. .  .aprise  the. . . 
land... to  be  worth  Ninty  five  pounds  according  to 

New  England  mony  Rhode  Island  September  23 :  1679. 

Peter  Talman 
John  Greene 

William  Clark-Land  Recorded. 
...William  Clarke  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .Ship-Carpenter  being 
..  .in. .  .possession. .  .of  Land,...  in  the  Neck. .  .called  Bos- 
ton Neck. .  .Containinge  three  hundred  and  fifty  Acres 
..  .bounded  by  the  Land  of  Captn  Willitt  on  the  south  side, 
and  the  Land  of  Captn  John  Browne  on  the  North  side,... 
being  halfe  a  share,  and  was  formerly  the  land  of  mr  John 
Paine  late  deceassed  of  the  Island  Prudance ; . . .  and  by  the 
Genii.  Serjant  delivered  into  the  posession  of... William 
Clarke. .  .with  all. .  .houses,  Orchards,  Gardens,. .  .accord- 
ing to  a  Law  made  the  22th  of  May  1662  All. .  .premises,  are 
hereby  Ratef yed . .  .  26th  day  of  September  One  Thowsand 
Six  hundred  seventy  Nine. . . 

John  Sanford  Recorder. 
[180]  Indenture  between  Peter  George  &  Samuell  George 
. .  .twenty  third  day  of  December. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hun- 
dred seventy  and  eight,  between  Peter  George  of  Block-Is- 
land alias  New-Shorrum. .  .and  Samuell  Georg  sonn  to... 
Peter  George. .  .doth. .  .give. .  .unto. .  .Samuell  my  sonn  all 
. .  .my  farme  where  now  I  dwell  containinge  two  hundred  and 


130 

tenn  acres... with  all  my  land  in  the  Corne  Neck  and  Else 
where  on  Block-Island. .  .with  all. .  .houseing  fences... 
Wit.  Peter  George. 

Benjamin  X  Miles 
his  marke 

Nathanill  Miles. 
[i8i]     William  Clarke  to  Edward  Lay. 

...William  Clarke  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .Ship-Carpenter. . . 
for. .  .full. .  .Satisfaction. .  .Received. .  .from  Edward  Lay  of 
Portsmouth. .  .yeoman. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .One  halfe. .  .percell 
of  land  by  me  Recovered. .  .by  Vertue. .  .of  the  Genii.  Court 
of  Tryalls. .  .against  the  Estate  of. .  .John  Paine  of  Prudence 
Island,  the  whole. .  .being  three  hundred  and  fifty  acres,  soe 
that  halfe... sold  is  one  hundred  seventy  five  acres... is  the 
Northermost  halfe . . .  lying . . .  in . . .  Boston  Neck . . .  Bounded 
...  on  the  North  side  by  the  land  of  Captn  John  Browne,  and 
on  the  south  side  by  that  other. .  .moiety  to  me  belonging. 
...twenty  seventh  day  of  February. .  .One  Thowsand  Six 
hundred  seventy  nine : . . . 
Wit.  William  Clarke 

John  X  Brigs  senr.  his  marke 

John  Sanford 

Joseph  Remington 

Joseph  Devell  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Joseph  Devell  of  Newport. .  .for. .  .Nine  pounds. .  .mony 
of  New-England. .  .paid  by  Thomas  Ward  of  Newport... 
have. .  .sold. .  .one  share. .  .both  Upland  and  Medow,  lying. . . 
at. .  .Puncatess. .  .Eighteenth  day  of  February. .  .One  Thow- 
sand six  hundred  Seventy  Nine : 

Wit.  Willia  Coggeshall. 

John  Paine 
William  X  Devell 
his  marke. 

Joseph  Devell 
Newport. .  .February  the  i8th  1679 

. .  .Joseph  Devell. . . acknowlidged  above. . . 
Caleb  Carr:  Asistant 


131 

[183]  John  &  William  Coggeshall  to  John  Manchester. 
. .  .  John  Coggeshall  and  William  Coggeshall  heirs  to  the  de- 
ceassed  William  Boulston  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .for, .  .seven 
pounds  tenn  shillings  in  Currant  Mony. .  .Received  of  John 
Manchester  of . .  .  Portsmouth . .  .  Have . . .  sold .  .  .  one  Eight 
part  ,of  a  share ...  in ...  Dartmouth ...  New  Plymouth ...  with 
all. .  .Uplands,  Medows,  waiters,  woods,. .  .belonginge. .  . 
Excepting  One  percell. .  .sold  by...  William  Baulston  (Our 
grandfather)  unto  Richard  Sisson...To  be  Holden  of  his 
Majtie. .  .as  of  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich.  .  .first  day  of 
June. .  .One  Thowsand  Six  hundred  Seventy  Eight: 

John  Coggeshall 
Wit.  Joseph  Devell 

John  Sanford  Elizabeth  X  Gould 

Thomas  X  Brigs 
his  marke 

. .  .Elizabeth  Gould  their  mother  doth  give  her  consent. . . 
March  1678-79 
Wit. 

Robert  Brownell  Thomas  Gould 
[184]     John  Manchester  to  Vallintine  Hudlestone. 
...John  Manchester  of  Portsmouth ...  twelve  pounds  of... 
mony  of  New-England ...  by  Vallintine  Hudlestone  of  New- 
port..  .Have. .  .sold. .  .all  Land  purchassed  by  me... twenty 
Eight  day  of    i2mo  called   February ...  One  Thowsand   six 
hundred  seventy  nine . .  . 
Wit. 

John  Hulme  The  marke 

Hannah  Clarke.  John  X  Manchester 

John  Manchester  Acknowlidged. .  .before  me  the  twenty 
Eight  day  of . . .  f  ebruary  1679  As  Attest  Walter  Clarke  De 
Govr. 

[184]     Henry  Chamberlin  to  Vallintine  Hudlestone, 
.  ,  .  Henry  Chamberlin  of    Sandwich  in , . .  New   plymoth, . . . 
Eldist  Sone  of  John  chamberlin  of  Rhode-Island  deceassed 
. . .  Satisfaction . . .  Received . . .  of . . .  Vallintine    Hudleston    of 
Newport. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .all     the      Right. .  .unto. .  .my. . . 


132 

fathers  Estate  now  on  Rhode-Island . . .  20th  of  the  first  month 
called  March  One  thowsand  six  hundred  &  79  Eighty : 
Wit.  Henary  Chamberlin. 

William  Chamberlin 

Walter  Newbery: 
The  Eighteenth  day  of  may, .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  and 
Eighty  Henry  chamberlin . . .  acknowlidged . ,  .  above . . . 

Walter  Clarke  Dept.  Govr. 
[185]  Mathew  Allen  to  Vallintine  Hudlestun. 
. . .  Mathew  Allen  of  Dartmoth . . .  New-Plymoth . . .  for ...  six 
pounds. .  .mony  of  New-England ...  paid ...  by  Vallintine 
Hudlestun  of  Newport . . .  Have . . .  sold . . .  Land  lying ...  at 
Acocksett  in. .  .Towne-ship  of  Dartmoth. .  .neer  the  Land  of 
Samuell  Cornell,. .  .Twenty  five  acres. .  .bounded. .  .On  the 
West  by  a  line  drawne  from  a  black  oake  tree  at  the  south  end 
thereof  unto  a  white  oake  being  the  Northerly  end  of  the  said 
line,  on  the  North,  by  a  line  drawne  from  the  said  white  Oake 
unto  a  Maple  standing  in  a  Swamp  being  the  east  end  of  the 
said  line  on  the  East  by  the  said  swamp  to  a  Black  Oake 
being  the  South  end  of  -the  East  bounds,  on  the  South  by  a 
line  drawne  from  the  last  mentioned  black-Oake  to  the  first 
mentioned  black  Oake  being  the  west  end  of  the  said  South 
line,.  .  .  (which  said  land  is  a  part  of  the  halfe  share  of  Land, 
on  which  L..now  live... to  be  Holden  of  his  Majtie...as 
of  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich.  . .  i6th  day  of  February. . . 
One  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  nine . . . 

his  marke 
Wit.  Mathew  X  Allen 

his  marke 

Richd  X  Kirby 

Hannah  Clarke 

Mathew  Allen  before  me  acknowlidged  the  above-written.. . 

Walter  Clarke  Dt  Govr. 
[186]     Henry  Tibbitts  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Henry    Tibbitts     of     Narragansett. .  .for. .  .tenn    pounds 
Sterling. .  .paid.  ...by  Thomas  Ward  of  Newport ...  have .. . 
sold. .  .a  whole  share  of  Land,. .  .at. .  .Sandy  Pointe  and  soe 


133 

runing  along  the  Bay  West  Northwest,  till  come  to  the  mouth 
of  the  Raritans  River,  from  thence  goeing  along  the  said 
River  to  a  certain  point  of  Marsh  land,  which  devides  the 
River  into  two  parts,  and  from  that  point  to  run  in  a  direct 
south-west  line  into  the  woods  twelve  miles  and  then  to 
turne  away  Southeast  and  by  South,  till  it  falls  into  the  maine 
Ocean,  which  are  the  bounds, . . .  according  as  they  are  Ex- 
pressed in  the  Charter  or  pattent . . .  Granted  by  Richard 
NicoUs  Esquire,. .  .fourteenth  day  of  June. . .  1672. 
Wit.  Henry  X  Tibbitt 

Richard  Bailey  his  marke. 

John  Read 
Newport ...  the  13th  of  May  1680  Henry  Tippits . . .  acknow- 
lidged  the  above-written . . . 

John  Green  Asistant 
[187]     Daniell  Wilcocke  to  Joseph  Devell. 
...Daniell  Wilcocke    of  Dartmoth. .  .New-Plymoth. .  .for. . . 
five  pounds  Currant  pay.  .  .paid,  by  Joseph  Devell  of  Newport 
.  .  .have. .  .sold. .  .a    Purchassers     Share,    both    upland    and 
medow . . .  at . . .  Punckatest . . .  Twentith    day    of    January . . . 
1672: 
Wit.  Daniell  X  Wilcoke 

Thomas  Ward  his  marke 

Richard  Baily: 
. .  .Daniell  Wilcock. . . acknowlidged . .  .above. .  .27th    day  of 
July  1680 

As  Atests  Walter  Clarke  Dpt  Govr. 
[188]  John  Simmons  to  Thomas  Ward. 
. .  .John  Simmons  Inhabitting  on  the  southeast  side  of  Tanton 
River  on. .  .land  called  the  freemens  land. .  .planter. .  .for. . . 
fifteen  pounds. .  .mony  of  New  England,. .  .paid. .  .by 
Thomas  Ward  of  Newport . . .  Merchant . . .  have . . .  sold . . . 
land  lying, ...  on  the  Southeast  side  of  Tanton  River,  con- 
taining one  hundred  Acres... in  bredth  fifty  Rods,... in 
length  three  hundred  and  twenty  Rods  being  part  of  the 
fifteenth  share  of  Land,  and  lying  between  the  fall  River  and 
Tanton  bounds,    in...Collony    of    Plymoth. .  .bounded. .  .on 


134 

the  Northwest  by  land. .  .of  WilHam  Mackepeace,  and  on  the 
Northeast  by  land  of  Job  Winslow,  on  the  Southeast  by  the 
land  of. .  .William  Mackepeace,  on  the  Southwest,  by  land. . . 
of  William  Mackepeace,. .  .with  all...  hie  ways,  Comons,... 
tenth  day  of  December. .  .One  Thowsand  Six  hundred  Sev- 
enty Nine: 
Wit.  John  Simmons 

William  Hiscox 

John  Read 
The  6th  of  Sept  1680  Newport. ,  .John  Simmons. .  .acknowl- 
idged . . .  Caleb  Carr  Asistant 

. .  .Martha  Symmons,  the  wife  of  John. .  .give  asent  unto. . . 
Sale . . . 

Wit.  Martha  X  Symmonds 

Marke  Athy  her  marke 

Samuell  Rowland 
[189]     John  Cooke  to  Thomas  Ward. 

...John  Cooke  of  Portsmouth. .  .for. .  .Eighteen  pounds  five 
Shillings  Currant  Silver  mony  of  New-England. .  .paid. .  .by 
Thomas  Ward  of  Newport ...  doe ...  sell ...  one  sixt  in  deale 
of  a  part...  both  upland  and  medow ...  being  in  the  Towne- 
ship  of  Dartmoth. .  .which. .  .land  I...  bought  of  Thomas 
Burge  of  Newport. .  .Thirtith  day  of  Aprill.  .  .one  Thowsand 
six  hundred  Eighty. 
Wit.  John  X  Cooke 

Henry  Tew  his  marke 

Richard  Barnes 

Jabess  X  Cotterell 
his  marke 
...John     Cooke. .  .acknowlidged     the     above-written ...  May 
29th  1680 

Before  mee  William  Coddington  Asist. 
[190]     Samuell  Gorton  to  Daniell  Coles-etc. 
. .  .  Samuel  Gorton  senr.  proflfessor  of  the  Mistries  of  Christ 
. .  .of  the  Towne  of  Warwicke. .  .doe. .  .give. .  .my  Right.. . 


135 

in  that  Neck  of  Land  which  was  given  unto  mr  Randall  Howl- 
don  and  my  selfe  lying  Southward  from  mr  Richard  Smiths 
place  where  his  house  stood,  and  bounded  Southerly  by  a 
Brook  Running  downe  betwixt  the  said  Neck  and  a  place 
where  Captain  Hudsons  house  stood,  at  Narragansett,  the 
bounds  thereof,  being  more  largly  Expressed  in  the  deed 
bearing  date  May  27th  1659... unto  my  Sonn  Daniell  Coles, 
and  his  wife  Mahor  Coles  one  sixth  part  of. .  .the  said  Neck 
. .  .unto  my  sonn  John  Sanford  and  my  Daughter  Mary  San- 
ford  One  Sixth  part,. .  .unto  my  sonn  William  Maze  and  my 
Daughter  Sarah  Maze,  one  sixth  part... unto  my  sonn  John 
Warner,  and  my  Daughter  Anna  Warner  one  sixth  part, . . . 
unto  my  sonn  John  Crandall  and  my  Daughter  Elizabeth 
Crandell  one  sixth  part,... unto  my  sonn  Benjamin  Barton 
and  to  my  daughter  Susanah  Barton  one  sixth  part, . .  .  pro- 
vided that  each  of  them  shall . . .  help  defend  the  title  against 
the  intrusions  of  Richard  Smith... in  case  all  doe  Refuse... 
I . .  .  give  it  to  my  Sonn  Samuell  Gorton  to  perf orme  the  same 
...27th  of  November  1677  in  Warwicke 
Wit.  Samuell  Gorton  Senr. 

John  Greene  Assistant. 

Randall  Howldon 
[191]  Elisha  and  Hannah  Hutchinson  to  Willian  Brenton. 
. . .  Elisha  Hutchinson  of  Boston . . .  and  Hannah  his  wife, . . . 
for... a  house  and  a  percell  of  Land  lying... in  the  Towne- 
ship  of  Boston. .  .belonging  unto  William  Brenton  Esq.  of 
Newport ...  made  over  to...  Elisha  and  Hannah  Hutchinson 
. .  .  hath . . .  sold . .  .  unto .  . .  William  Brenton  Esgr. . . .  that . . . 
land  or  farme  which  lately  did  belong  unto  my  Uncle  mr 
Samuell  Hutchinson  of  Boston. .  .deaceassed,  and  by  him... 
given  unto  me... in  which  farme  then  John  Acres  dwelt,... 
lying  in  the  Towneship  of  Portsmouth ...  bounded  on  the 
Northerly  side. .  .with  the  land  of  Elisha  Sanford,  and  on  the 
Easterly  side... with  the  Comon  shore  next  the  sea,  and  on 
the  Southerly  Side. .  .with  the  Land  of  Obadiah  Holmes,  and 
on  the  Westerly  side. .  .with  the  Comon  land  of  the  towne,. .  . 
two    hundred    acres, ..  .with   all   houses,    Edififices,   buildings, 


136 

fences,    Gardins,   Yards,   trees,    fruits,   ways    dreanes,. .  .be- 
longing...  twenty  seventh  day  of  September ...  One  Thows- 
and  Six  hundred  Seventy 
Wit,  Elisha  Hutchinson — 

Stephen  Burton  Hannah  Hutchinson — 

John  Winchcombe 
Newport. .  .the  8th  day  of  May  1674. .  .John  Winchcombe. . . 
did  see  Elisha  and  Hannah  Hutchinson  signe. .  .deed. . . 

William  Coddington  Gor. 
[194]  William  Brenton  to  Peleg  Sanford. 
...William  Brenton  now  Resident  in  Newport ...  Marriner 
...for...  one  hundred  and  five  pounds ...  Mony  of  Boston 
...paid  by  Peleg  Sanford  of  Newport ...  Have ...  sold .. . 
land  in  the  Township  of  Newport. .  .and  is  part  of  my  Farme 
Comonly  Knowne  by  the  Name  of  Breases  or  Cases  farme 
.  .  .forty  two  Acres. . .  bounded ...  on  the  North.  .  .on  the  land  of 
John  Easton  senr.  begining  at  a  Ditch  on  the  banck  neer  unto 
the  Beach,  and  soe  to  Extend  by  the  said  ditch  and  fence  on 
a  Straight  line  West . . .  Eighty  two  Rods  or  poles.  Eighty  two 
Rods  South  Eighty  two  Rods  on. .  .Brentons  land...  East 
unto  the  salt  water  banck  and  Soe  to  Extend  North. .  .on  the 
said  Sea  Banck  upon  a  straight  line  Eighty  two  Rods  or 
poles  unto  the  ditch  first  above-mentioned, . . .  with  all . . .  wood 
. . .  stones  Quarries . . .  if . . .  William  Brenton . . .  shall . . .  pay . . . 
unto. .  .Peleg  Sanford. .  .one  hundred  and  five  pounds  of . . . 
monys  of  Boston ...  in  the  Towne  of  Newport . . .  then . . .  Deed 
. .  .Shall  be  voyd  and  of  None  Efect. .  .sixt  day  of  March. . . 
One  Thowsand  six  hundred  seventy  nine  or  Eighty : 
Wit.  William  Brenton 

Nathaniell  Coddington 

Josiah  Arnold 
Newport  March  loth  1679-80..  .Josiah  Arnold  and  Nathaniell 
Coddington . . .  saw  William  Brenton  signe . . .  above-said  Mort- 
gage and  acknowlidged  it 

John  Albro  Asistant 
[195]     James  Badcocke — Will. 
...James  Badcocke  senr. .  .Verbelly. .  .before  us...  unto  his 


137 

sonn  Job  Badcocke  all  his  Smith  tooles .  .  . 
...one  Cow... unto  his  daughter  Mary  Champlin...a  Cow 
Calfe  to  William  Champlins  Eldist  daughter. . . 
. .  .unto  his  sonn  Joseph  all  his  housing  and  lands. .  . 
..  .all. .  .Remaining, .  .Estate. .  .unto     his       wife     Elizabeth 
Badcocke . . .  John  Badcocke 

Job  Badcocke. 
This  Testator  dyed  the  12th  of  June  1679. 
John . . .  and  Job  Badcocke . . .  appeared ...  at  a  Court  Held  at 
Westerly  the  17th  of  September  1679.  •  • 

John  Sanford  Secretary: 
[196]     Inventory. .  .James  Badcocke  Senr. 
...Inventory  of... James  Badcocke  Senr.  Deceassed  in  June 
last  in  Stoning  Towne ...  Leaving  a  Widow  with  three  Chil- 
dren the  Eldist  a  Sonn  about  Nine  Yeare  Old. 

i        s.       d. 
house  &  Land  about  twenty  Acres  30   :  00   :  00 

Bellows :  Anvil  Vice  and  other  Smiths  tooles     05    :  00  :  00 

2  Cowes  2  Yearlings  &  2  Calves  11    :  00   :  00 
7  small  swine  £2:1  bed  &  bedstead  with  bed- 

ing  £  5  07  :  00  :  00 

one  small  bed  &  beding  £   i  :5s :  2  chests  los.  01  :  15  :  00 

Chum  pailes    &  tubbs... 01  :  10  :  00 

Iron  pott  scilitt    pan.     tramills . .  .  Iron  spitt  & 

slice 02  :  00  :  00 

3  Spining  wheels  12s.  axes  Spade... los.  01  :  02  :  00 
hand  saw  drawing  knife  Reaphooke  2  botle  one 

hamer 00  :  05    :  00 

puter  and  tin,  one  brass  skillit  2  sives 00  :  14  .;  00 

one  paire  of  Cards  with  some  wools  &  flax  & 

yarne 01  :  05    :  00 

Chaines  Cradle  with  other  lumber 00  :  10  :  00 


Sum  Tottall..6i    :  01    :  00 
. ,  .Inventory. .  .Taken. .  .5th  of  July  1679  by  us 

James  Pendleton  Thomas  Wells  Ephraim  Minor 
[196]     Richard  Carder  to  Samuell  Gorton. 
. .  .Richard  Carder  of  Warwick. .  .mony. .  .Received  have. . . 


138 

sold . .  .  unto  Samuell  Gorton  of . .  .  Warwick .  .  .  land . .  .  being 
upon  that  Neck  of  land  Called  Shaomet  by  the..  .Towne  of 
Warwick,. .  .about  twenty  acres. .  .bounders. .  .Northeast  end 
of  it  butteth  upon  the  hie  way  goeing  from  the  said  towne 
unto  the  Neck. .  .called  Shaomett,  and  the  southwest  end 
Butteth  upon  a  certaine  Swamp  Runnet  or  Small  passage  of 
water  Issuing  into  a  cove  or  inlet  of  water  from  the  sea,  upon 
the  Northwest  side  it  is  bounded  upon  a  percell  of  land  be- 
longing to  mr  John  Wickes  an  other  percell  of  land  of  mr 
Randall  Houldons  coming  from  the  said  cove  or  inlet  of 
water,  an  other  percell  of  land  of  mr  Robert  Potters,  an 
other  of  mr  Walter  Todds,  and  a  small  peace  of  Medow  or 
Marsh  ground  belonging  to  John  More  all  of  Warwick,  and 
the  southeast  side  bounded  by  a  percell  of  Land  of  Richard 
Watermans  of ..  .Providence:.  .  .seventeenth  day  of  January 
. .  .one  thousand  six  hundred  fifty — : 

Wit.  Richard  Carder. 

Randall  Houldon 
Walter  Todd 
John  Wickes 
John  Hadon 
[197]     WiUiam  Manchester  to  John  Cooke. 
...William  Manchester  of    Punkatest    in  New  Plymouth... 
Yeoman. . .   for.  .  .sixty  pounds. .  .mony  of  New-England. .  . 
paid .  . .  from  John  Cooke  senr.  of . . .  Portsmouth  yeoman . . . 
Have. .  .sold. .  .one  halfe  of  Thirteen  shares  of  land  by  me 
purchassed  of  Thomas  Lawton,  then  of . .  .  Portsmouth ...  as 
by  Deed. .  .bearing  date    the    twentith    day  of  Aprill...one 
thowsand  six  hundred  Seventy  Seven  doth  appeare  to  be  by 
him  purchassed  oflf... Alice  Bradford,  Gersham  Cobb,  Wil- 
liam Nelson,  William  Crowe,  John  Brigs,  senr.,  John  Richard, 
Samuell  Dunson,  Andrew  King,  Thomas  Southworth,  Thomas 
Morton,  John  Jourdane    and  Joseph  Ramsdon — ...land... 
lying...  in  the. .  .Punckatest   Neck...  to  Bee   Holdon  of  his 
Majtie.   ...as  of    his    manner    of  East  Greenwich. .  .twenty 
four  day  of  November . . .  One  Thousand  Six  hundred  Eighty : 


139 

Wit.  William  Manchester 

James  Card  X 

John  Sanford.  his  marke 

Mary  X  Manchester 
her  marke 
William  Manchester . . .  sixteenth  day  of  February  one  Thous- 
and six  hundred  and  Eighty. .  .owne  above... 

John  Albro  Asistant 
[198]  William  Manchester  to  John  Cooke. 
...William  Manchester  of  Punckatest. .  .Yeoman. .  .for. .  . 
seventy  three  pound  six  shillings  and  Eight  pence . . .  mony  of 
New-England. .  .paid  by  John  Cooke  senr.  of  Portsmouth. . . 
Yeoman. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .two  shares. .  .belonging  unto  a 
late  purchass  of  the  lands  of  Pocassett  and. .  .adjacent ;  as 
will. .  .appeare  by  a  Deed  from...  New  Plymoth  CoUony. .  . 
fifth  day  of  March  1679.  Unto  Edward  Grey  Nathaniell 
Thomas  Benjamin  Church  my  selfe  and  some  other  our 
friends. .  .therein  being  Thirty  Shares...  in  the  whole,... 
bounded  Northward  &  westward  by  the  freemens  lotts  neer 
the  fall  River  Westward  by  the  Bay  or  Sound  that  Runnith 
between  the  said  land  and  Rhode  Island,  Southward  partly 
by  Saconnett  Bounds  and  partly  by  Dartmoth  Bounds, 
Northward  up  unto  the  woods  till  it  meet  with  land  formerly 
granded  by  the  Authorety  of  Plymoth  to  other  men . . .  Ex- 
prest  in  said  Deed,  as  alsoe. .  .former  Grants  therein  Excepted 
as  to  Captn  Goulding.  David  and  Thomas  Lake,  and  Captn 
Morris:. .  .Twenty  fourth  day  of  November. ..  1680. 
Wit.  William  X  Manchester 

James  Card  his  marke 

John  Sanford  Mary  X  Manchester 

her  marke : 
William     Manchester. .  .sixteenth     day     of     February     One 
Thousand  six  hundred  &  Eighty. .  .owned  this... 

John  Albro  Asistant 
[199]     Caleb  Carr  to  Susanah  Relict  of  William  Hieffernan 
...Caleb  Carr  of   Newport. .  .Administrator  to...  Estate  of 
William  Hieffernan  deceassed  have  sold  unto  Susanah  the 


1 40 

Relict  of    said    William    Hieffernan,    a    percell...of  Goods, 
which  belonged  to. .  .William  Hieffernan.  .  .28th  day  of  Feb- 
ruary 1680-81. 
Wit.  Caleb  Carr 

Ephraim  Turnor 

John  Odlin 
[200]     Robert  Bartlett  to  Thomas  Burge. 
...Robert    Bartlett    of ..  .Plymoth. .  .for. ,  .fifty    pounds... 
Currant     Silver    mony     of     New     England. .  .Recived. .  .of 
Thomas    Burge    junr.    of . . .  Newport . . .  Have . . .  sold, . . .  one 
Moiety. .  .of  land  both  upland  &  Medowland, . .  .at  Acushnett 
in. .  .Towneship  of  Dartmoth . . . alsoe  one  Moiety. .  .in  deale 
...  of  land  both  upland  and  medowland . . .  being  at  a  place . . . 
Knowne  by  the  Indian  Name  of  Poscomansett  in. .  .Towneship 
of  Dartmoth ...  Reserveing  unto  my  Selfe  one  third  part  or 
one  part  of  three  of  the  half e  share    last  named . . .  Excepting 
the  one  third  of  the  latter  (which  is  alredy  Excepted)  . .  .To 
be  houlden...to  his  Majtie.  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich 
. .  .Seventeenth  day  of  February. . .  1670. . . 
Wit :  the  marke 

William  Clarke  of  Robert  X  Bartlett 

James  Clarke 

. . .  acknowledged . . . 

Before  me  Thomas  prence  Gor. 
[201  ]     John  Brigs  to  John  Brigs. 

. .  .John  Brigs  Senr.  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .Yeoman. .  .unto  my 
...Eldist  Sonn  John  Brigs  of ..  .Portsmouth,. .  .doe. .  .Give 
. .  .one  halfe. .  .of  a  whole  purchassers  Share. .  .both  uplands 
and  Medows. .  .in. .  .Towneship  of  Dartmoth ...  Next  ad- 
joyning  to  the  land  of  the  widow  Fancy  at  the  place  formerly 
called  Ponagansett. .  .if  my  Sonn  John  shall  decease. .  .before 
his  wife  Hannah ...  Lands ...  shall  be  to  the...  use  of... 
Hannah  provided  she  remaine  a  Widdow. .  .Then. .  .shall. . . 
decend  unto  my  Grandson  John  Second  Sonn  to  my... sonn 
John. .  .then.,  .is  to  decend  to  my  next,  youngist  Grandson 
. .  .Then. .  .shall  decend  unto  Edward  Eldist  Sonn  to  my. . . 
sonn  John  Brigs ...  fourteenth  day  of  October  One  Thowsand 


141 

six  hundred  Seventy  Nine, .  • . 

Wit.  John  Brigs 

Edward  X  Lay  his  X  marke 

his  marke 

John  Sanford. 
[202]  William  Manchester  to  John  Pearce. 
...William  Manchester  of  Punkatest  in  New  Plymouth... 
Yeoman,. .  .for. .  .Sixteen  pounds  of  sterling  mony  of  New- 
England.  .  .paid. .  .by  John  Pearce  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .Have 
. .  .sold. .  .One  fourth  part  of  a. .  .Thirtith  part. .  .of  land  at 
Pocassett .  .  .  bounded .  .  .  Northward  and  Westward  by  the 
f reemens  lotts  neer  the  fall  river,  and  westward  by  the  Bay  or 
sound  that  runnith  between  the  said  Land  and  Rhode  Island 
Southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is  Sett  at  a  great  Rock  on 
which  is  a  Seader  bush  marked  neer  the  way  that  leadith  to 
Punkatest  Eastward  to  a  pond  at  Dartmoth  Towne  bounds, 
and  westward  to  Suppowett  Creeks  mouth  and  partly  by  Dart- 
moth  bounds,  and  Northward  up  into  the  woods  to  Midlebury 
Towne  bounds  and  quitquissitt  pond  (alwaies  Excepted  of 
this.  .  .Sale  Suppowett  neck  of  land,  and  the  Medows  belong- 
ing to  Punkatest  proprietors,  and  the  land  formerly  granted  by 
the  Court  of  Plymoth  to  Captn.  Richard  Morris,  and  soe  much 
. .  .as  shall  be  alloted. .  .for  the  use  of  the  ministry)  All. . . 
I  with  others  lately  purchassed  of. .  .Agents  of. .  .Collony  of 
Plymoth. .  .by. .  .Deed  of  feofment. .  .date  March  5th  1679 
1680. .  .seventh  day  of  October. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred 
Eighty  one. 
Wit.  William  X  Manchester 

John  Sanford  his  marke 

William  Coggeshall  Mary  X  Manchester 

Joseph  Tripp:  her  marke 

Wit .  to. .  .Mary   Manchesters  hand   this    17th  January   1683 

Thomas  Butts 

Elizabeth  X  Butts 
her  marke. 
...William    Manchester. .  .acknowlidged    the    above   written 
...Decembr.  13th  1681  Peleg  Sanford  Governor. 


142 

William  Manchester  to  Mathew  Greenell. 
...William  Manchester  of  Punkatest.  .  .for. .  .thirteen 
pounds  of  Sterling  mony  of  New  England ...  paid ...  by 
Mathew  Greenell  of . .  .  Portsmouth . .  .  Maulster . . .  Have . .  . 
sold... one  full  fourth  part  of  a  Thirtith  part... of  land  at 
Pocassett . . .  bounded . . .  Northward  and  Westward  by  the 
freemens  lotts  neer  the  fall  river,  and  Westward  by  the  Bay 
or  Sound  that  runneth  between  the  said  land  and  Rhode-Is- 
land Southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is  Sett  at  a  great  Rock 
on  which  is  a  seader  bush  marked  neer  the  way  that  leadith 
to  Punkatest  Eastward  to  a  pond  at  Dartmoth  Towne  Bounds 
Westward  to  Suppowett  Creeks  mouth,  and  partly  by  Dart- 
moth  bounds,  and  Northward  up  into  the  woods  to  Middl- 
bury  Towne  bounds  and  quitquissitt  pond : — (alwaies  Ex- 
cepted out  of  this . . .  Sale  Suppowett  Neck  of  land  and  the 
Medow  belonging  to  Punkatest  proprietors,  and  the  land.  . . 
granted  by...Plymoth  to  Captn.  Richard  Morris,  and  Soe 
much. .  .as  Shall  be  alloted. .  .for  the  use  of  the  Ministry) .  .  . 
which. .  .Land,  I. .  .with. .  .others  latly  purchassed  of...  the 
Collony  of  Plymoth. .  .Deed. .  .bearing  date  March  5th  1679 
1680. .  .seventh  day  of  October. .  .one  Thowsand  Six  hun- 
dred Eighy  one. 
Wit.  William  X  Manchester 

John  Sanford  his  marke 

William  Coggeshall 

Joseph  Tripp 
. .  .WilHam  Manchester. .  .acknowlidged  the  above-written. . . 
Peleg  Sanford  Govr. 

[205]  Agreement  between  John  Brigs  senr.  and  John  Brigs. 
Memorandum : 

. . .  agreed  that . . .  the  medows  to  the  within  mentioned  half  e 
share  of  land  Given  me  by  my. .  .father  John  Brigs,  is  to  be 
the  medow  adjoining  to  that  land  herein  given  the  medow 
Called  boggy  Medow  and  the  Medow  at  a  place  called  bare 
need,  and  the  Medow  adjoining  to  a  percell  of  land,  by  my 
father  sold  to    Ralph    Earll;. .  .being  tenn  acres ...  reserved 


143 

against  the  land  of  Ralph  Earll;. .  .to  continue  till  the  decease 

of  my  father. .  .14th  of  Octobr  1679: 

...I...  John  Brigs  Senr.  doe. .  .Give. .  .my  son  John  Brigs 

...halfe   of    my. .  .land. .  .the  bounds. .  .shall. .  .take   in   all 

the  land. .  .John  hath  broken  up  and  Cleered. .  .14th  October 

1679:... 

Wit.  John  X  Brigs  Senr. 

Edward  Lay  his  marke 

his  marke 

John  Sanford:  John  X  Brigs  junr. 

his  marke 
William  Manchester  to  Thomas  Dorfie. 
. .  .  William  Manchester  of  Punkatest  in  New-Plymoth . .  . 
Yeoman. .  .for. .  .thirty  four  pounds  of  Sterling  mony  of 
New-England ...  paid ...  by  Thomas  Dorfie  of ..  .Portsmouth 
..  .yeoman, ..  .have. .  .Sold. .  .one. .  .halfe  of  a  thirtith  part 
...of  land  at  Pocasset. .  .bounded. .  .Northward  and  West- 
ward by  the  freemans  lotts  Neer  the  fall  river,  and  Westward 
by  the  bay  or  sound  that  runneth  between  the  said  land  and 
Rhode  Island  Southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is  Sett  at  a 
great  Rock  on  which  is  a  Seader  bush  Marked  neer  the  way 
that  leadith  to  Punkatest  Eastward  to  a  pond  at  Dartmoth 
Towne  bounds  and  westward  to  Suppowett  Creeks  mouth 
and  partly  by  Dartmoth  bounds  and  Northward  up  into  the 
woods  to  Midlebury  Towne  bounds  and  quitquissitt  pond, 
(alwaies  Excepted  out  of  this. .  .Sale,  Suppowett  neck. .  .and 
the  Medows  belonging  to  Punkatest  proprietors,  and  the  land 
formerly  granted  by : . .  .  plymoth  to  Captn  Richard  Morris, 
and  soe  much. .  .as  shall  be  allotted. .  .for  the  use  of  the  min- 
istry)..  .which. .  .land  I. .  .with. .  .others. .  .purchassed  of 
...the  Collony  of  Plymoth ...  Deed  bearing  date  March  5th 
1679  -  1680. .  .thirteenth. .  .of  December. .  .One  Thowsand 
Six  hundred  Eighty  one. 
Wit.  William  X  Manchester 

John  Sanford  his  marke 

George  Sisson 


144 

...Wil    Manchester, .  .acknowlidged    the    above ...  December 
13th  1681 

Peleg'  Sanford  Governor 
[207]  Thomas  Manchester  to  John  Pearce. 
. .  .Thomas  Manchester  junr.  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .Black 
Smith. .  .For. .  .fifteen  pounds  Sterling  mony  of  New-Eng- 
land..  .paid. .  .by  John  Pearce  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .Yeoman, 
.  . .  Have . .  .  sold . .  .  one . .  .  fourth  part  of  a  Thirtith  part ...  of 
land  at  Pocassett. .  .bounded. .  .Northward  and  westward  by 
the  freemens  lotts  neer  the  fall  river  and  westward  by  the 
bay  or  sound  that  runneth  between  the  saide  land  and  Rhode 
Island,  Southward,  partly  by  a  line  that  is  sett  at  a  great 
rock  on  which  is  a  seader  bush  marked  neer  the  way  that 
leadith  to  Punkatest  Eastward  to  a  pond  at  Dartmoth  Towne 
bounds,  and  westward  to  Suppowett  Creeks  mouth,  and 
partly  by  Dartmoth  bounds  and  quitquisset  pond  (alwaies  Ex- 
cepted out  of  this...  sale,  Suppowet  Neck. .  .and. .  .Medows 
belonging  to  Punkatest  proprietors  and . . .  land .  . .  granted  by 
. . .  Plymoth  to  Captn  Richard  Morris,  and  soe  much ...  as 
shall  be  allotted  for  the  use  of  ministry)  which... I  bought 
...  of  William  Manchester,  who  with  others  latly  purchassed 
. .  .of  Plymoth,. .  .Deed. .  .bearing  date  March  5th  1679-1680 
...one  and  thirtith  day  of  December. .  .one  Thowsand  six 
hundred  Eighty  one 
Wit.  Thomas  X  Manchester 

John  Sanford.  his  marke 

Mary  Sanford — . 
[208]     John  Warner  to  Thomas  Brownell. 
...John    Warner   af ..  .Warwick. .  .for. .  .Valluable    sum   by 
...Thomas  Brownell    of  Portsmouth. ,  .doe. .  .sell. .  .one. . . 
quarter ...  share  of  Land    lying...  to    the    westward  of   the 
bounds  of  the  Towneship  of  Warwick  Comonly  Called  Cow- 
eesitt. .  .Twenty  fift  day  of  October. .  .1677: 
Wit.  John  Warner 

Caleb  Arnold 

William  Coggeshall 
[209]     John  Tripp  received  of  Rose  Weeden. 


145 

...John  Tripp  and  Mary  my  wife  have  recieved  of  Rose 
Weeden  (Executrix  to  Anthony  Paine  deceast)  . .  .what. . . 
was  due  us. .  .i8th  day  of  March  (1650) 

James  Weeden 

Richard  Harte  John  Tripp 

the  marke  of  Mary  X  Tripp 
John  Tripp  to  Mathew  Grenell. 
...John  Tripp  of  Portsmouth. .  .with  the  consent  of   Mary 
my  wife  have  sold  unto  Mathew  Grenell  of  the  same  Towne 
. . .  Twenty  seven  Acres  of  land  lying  within . . .  Portsmouth 
...bounded  Eastward  partly  with  land  sold  WilHam  Havens 
and  partly  with  land ...  of  Rose  Paine,  Southward  with  the 
hie  way  to  the  sea  Westward  with  land  of  Rose.  Paine  and 
Northward  with  the  mill  river, . . .  beinge  Twenty  seven  Rod 
broad  upright  through  the   whole  lott . . .  being  that . . .  Land 
that   I... had   in  part   of   the  Legusie  given  to  my  wife... 
Twenty  Seventh  of    Aprill...one     Thowsand   Six  hundred 
fifty  and  one  — 
Wit.  John  Tripp 

the  marke  of  the  X  marke  of 

Henry  X  Lake  Mary  Tripp 

William  Hall 
[210]  Ursamequen,  etc  to  James  Cudworth,  etc. 
. .  .Ursamequen  Wamsetta  Tatapanum.  Natives...  of  New- 
Plymoth . . .  have  sold...  unto  Captn  James  Cudworth,  Josiah 
Winslow  senr.  Constant  Southworth  John  Barnes,  John  Tis- 
dale,  Humphry  Tumor,  Walter  Hatch,  Samuell  House,  Sam- 
uell  Jackson,  John  Damon ;  mr  Timethy  Hatherly,  Timethy 
Foster  Thomas  Southworth,  George  Watson,  Nathaniell 
Morton,  Richard  Moore,  Edmond  Chanler,  Samuell  Nash, 
Henry  Howland,  mr  Ralph  Partridge,  Love  Bruster,  William 
Paybody,  Christopher  Wadsworth,  Keanelme  Winslow 
Thomas  Bourne  John  Waterman  the  son  of  Robert  Water- 
man... all  the... upland  and  medow,  lying  on  the  Easterly 
Side  of  Tanton  River,. .  .bounded  towards  the  South,  with 
the  river  Called  the  Falls  or  Queqateand,  and  soe  Extending 


146 

it  selfe  Northerly  untill  it  come  to  a  litle  brooke  Called  by  the 
English. .  .Staseys  Creek,  which  Brook  Isues  out  of  the  woods 
into  the  Marshes,  and  Bay  of  Asonett  close  by  the  Narrowing 
of  Asonett  neck,  and  from  a  Marked  tree  neer  to  the  said 
brook  to  the  head  of  the  marsh  to  Extend  it  selfe  into  the 
woods  on  a  North  nor  East  point  four  miles;  and  from  the 
head  of  the  said  four  miles  on  a  Straite  lyne  southerly  untill 
it  meet  with  the  head  of  the  four  mile  line  at  quequeteand  or 
the  falls. .  .Including  all  Medows  Necks  or  Islands  lying... 
betwixt  Asonett  Neck  and  the  falls. ..  (Except  the  land  that 
Tabatacoson  hath  in  present  use)  and  all  the  medow  upon 
Asonett  Neck  upon  the  south  side  of  the  said  Neck,  and  all 
the  Medow  upon  the  westerly  side  of  Tanton  River  from 
Tantons  upland  bounds  round  untill  it  come  to  the  head  of 
Wepoissett  river,  in  all  Creeks  Coves  rivers  and  inland  medow 
not  lying  above  four  miles  from  the  flowing  of  the  tide : . .  . 
for. .  .twenty  Coates  two  Rugs  to  Iron  potts  to  Ketels  and  one 
litle  Ketle  8  paire  of  shooes,  six  paire  of  stockins  one  dozen 
of  hows  I  dozen  of  hatchets  two  yards  of  broadcloth,  and  a 
debt  satisfied  to  John  Barnes,  which  was  due  from  Wamsitta 
...before  the  24th  of  December  1657... wee  Ursamequen, 
Wamsitta,  Tattapanum  sett  our  hands . . .  second  day  of  Aprill 

1659 

Wit.  Wamsatta  X  his  marke 

Thomas  Cooke  Tatapanum  X  her  marke 

Jonathan  Brige 
John  Sasomon  — . 
. .  .Before  us  Jos.  Winslow 

Will .  Bradford 
Ju     th  1659  Wamsitta  did  acknowlidge. . . 
Before  us  -  Jos.  Winslow 

Wilt.  Bradford 
June  the  9th  1659. .  .Tattapanum  did  acknowlidge. .  . 
Jos.  Winslow  Wilt.  Bradford 
[211]     Samuell  Nash  to  Benjamin  Bartlett. 
...Lieutent   Samuell   Nash  of...Duxbury  in . . .  Plymoth . . . 
for. .  .28  pounds  Sterling. .  .paid  by  Benjamin  Bartlett  of . . . 


147 

Towne  afore-said . . .  Cooper, . . .  have . . .  sold . . .  all . . .  my . . . 
land.,  .about  Tanton  River  belonging  to  me  as  one  of  those 
twenty  six  Antient  freemen  or  old  Comers  (comonly  soe 
Called) . .  .granted. .  .bearing  date  the  third  day  of  July. . . 
1656  which. .  .containes  all ...  land ...  from  Tanton  Bounds 
on  the  west  side  of  the  River  to  Wepoissett  river  and  on  the 
East  side  of  the  River... from  Asowett  Neck  to  Quequee- 
haent,  or  the  place  called. .  .the  falls,  and  soe  to  Extend  into 
the  woods  four  miles  on  each  side  of  Tetucutt  River,  as  alsoe 
the  Twenty  Sixt  part  of  all  the  grant  of  Medow,  lying  be- 
tween Plymoth  grant  at  Sepecan  and  the  purchassers  grant 
which  Extendeth  three  miles  to  the  Eastward  of  Acushnett. . . 
my  lott  of  the  afore-said  land. .  .being. .  .the  one  and 
Twentith  lott  lyinge  Next  untojhe  land  of  mr  Thomas  Bourne 
on  the  South  Side,  Begining  at  the  range,  betwixt  the  said 
lotts,  and  Extending. .  .towards  the  North. .  .untill  it  come 
Neer  to  Asonett  river  and  meets  with  the  range  that  Crosseth 
the  path,  to  a  read  Oake  below  the  path,  and  a  white  Oake 
above  the  path,  it  being  Marked  and  Numbered  towards  the 
South  with  twenty  one,  and  towards  the  North  with  twenty 
two. .  .To  Bee  Houldon  as  of  his  Majtie.  his  Manner  of  East 
Greenwich. .  .29  of  May. . .  1666 

Wit.  Samuell  Nash 

his 

Francis        West 
X 
marke 

Jonathan  Alden. 
[213]     Raph  Powell  to  John  Simmons. 

...Raph  Powell  of . .  .Marshfield  in . . .  Newplymoth  & 
Martha  his  wife. .  .for. .  .forty  &  seven  pounds  tenn  shillings 
. .  .paid  by  John  Simmons  Inhabitant  on  the  freemens  lotts 
at  Tanton  River. .  .doe. .  .sell. .  .one. .  .halfe  part  of  the  one 
and  twentith  lott  on  the  Easterly  side  of... Tanton  River, 
It  being. .  .one  hundred  Rods  wide,  and  four  Miles  long  from 
the  said  river  Eastward  and  to  be  devided  Soe..  .John  Sim- 
mons Shall  have  the  South  Side  of . . .  lott,  and  alsoe . . .  one 


148 

halie...the  Lane  belonging ...  en  Swansey  Side  being  the 
westerly  side  of  the  river. .  .which  is. .  .two  sixteen  acre  lots 
. .  .and  one  halfe  of  all  the  medow  belonging. .  .on  both  Sids 
the  said  river  Excepting  only... that  Medow  belonging... 
that  is  at  or  neer. .  .to  a  place. .  .called  Scipican. .  .sixteenth 
day  of  February. .  .1679: 
Wit,  Rslph  Powell 

Samnell  Sprugc  Manha  X  Powell 

Saniuell  Litle,  her  niarke 

i6th  Ralph  Powell  and  Manha  his  wife . .  .  Februan.- 
1674 . . .  acknowlidged  this . .  . 

Josiah  Winslow  Go\t  X.  P. 
[214]  John  Simmons  to  Thomas  Ward. 
. .  .John  Simmons  Inhabitant  on  the  freemens  Lorts  aboutting 
on  the  South  Eastward  Side  of  Tanton  River  in  the  Collony 
of  New  Ph-moih. .  .for. .  .fifty  two  pounds  of  Currant  nwny 
of  New  England. .  .paid. .  .by  Thomas  Ward  of  Xe^\-p)ort. . . 
Have. .  .Sold. .  .cme. .  .halfe  part  of  the  one  and  twentith  lott 
on  the  Easterly  Side  of  the  said  Tanton  river,  being  in  bredth 
. .  .one  hundred  Rods  wide,  and  four  Miles  long  from  tlie. . . 
river  Eastwardly. .  .to  be  soe  devided.. .  .that. .  .Thomas 
Ward  shall  have  the  South  Side . . .  and  alsoe  the  one  halfe  of 
the  land  belonging  to  the . . .  share  on  Swansey  Side,  being  the 
Westerly  Side  of  the... River  which  is... two  sixteen  Acre 
lorts . . .  and  the  one  halfe  of  all  tlie  Medow  belonging  to  the. . . 
share  on  both  sides  the. .  .river. ..  (Excepting  only...  that 
Medow  belonging  to  the  said  share. .  .that  is  at. .  .Scipican) 
. . . Sixteenth  day  of  September. . .  16S0 : 
Wit.  John  Simmons 

John  X  Jerson  his  marke 

Gilbert  Magick. 

Richard  Barnes 
— John   Simmons... in   Newport     acknowlidged   the  above- 
written.  .  .17th  day  of  Septemr  16S0 

Before  peleg  Sanford  Governor 
...Martha  S\-mmons  the  wife  of... John   Simmons,  doe... 
give.,  .asent,. .  .to  sale..  .18th. .  .of  Aprill  1681. 


M9 

Wit.  Martha  X  Siramona — 

Marke  Athy  her  marke 

Samuell  Rowland 
[216J  William  Makepeace  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...William  Makepeace  Inhabittant  on  the  freemens  land... 
abutting  on  the  Southeastward  Side  of  Tanton  River  in... 
Collony  of  New-Plymoth. .  .Ann  his  wife  for... fifty  pounds 
. .  .Currant  mony  of  New  England. .  .paid  by  Thomas  Ward 
of  Newport. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .one  Moiety. .  .of  a  freemans 
Lott..  .the  one  &  Twentith  Lott  on  the  Easterly  Side  of  the 
...Tanton  River  being  in  bredth...One  hundred  Rods,  and 
four  miles  long  from  the... River  Easterly,  and  being  the 
Northeastly  Side  thereof,  and  alsoe...one  half e... the  land 
belonging  to  the... Share  on  Swansey  Side  being  the  Wes- 
terly Side  of  the... River  which  is... two  Sixteen  acre  lotts 
...and... one  halfe  of  all  the  medow  belonging  to  the... 
share  on  both  sides  the... River  (Except  only... that  Medow 
belonging  to  the. . . Share  that  is. .  .neer  to. . .  Scipicanj . . . 
Twenty  seventh  Day  of  October  One  Thowsand  six  hundred 
and  Eighty. .  . 

Wit.  William  X  Makepeace 

James  Man  his  marke 

John  Peckum  jur.  Ann  X  Mackepeace 

Gilbert  Magick  her  marke 

John  X  Jerson 
his  marke. 
. .  .William  Mackepeace  and  Ann  his  wife. .  .in  Newport. . . 
acknowlidg^  the  above . . . 

Peleg  Sanford  Governor. 
[217]  Thomas  Waite  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Thomas  Waite  of  Portsmouth. .  .Taylor. .  .for. .  .twelve 
pounds  tenn  shillinge. .  .paid. .  .by  Thomas  Ward  of  Newport 
..  .Have. .  .sold. .  .one  fourth  part  of  a  share  in  Deale  of 
land ...  upland  and  Medow ...  Scittuated  in  the  Collony  of 
New  Plymoth ...  bounded ...  on  the  South. .  .partly  by  the 
North  line  of  the  Towne  of  Dartmoth  and  partly  by  the  north 
line  of  the  lands    belonging    to  the  purchassers  of... Pane- 


ISO 

katess  in  which. .  .line, .  .is  A  seader  tree  marked  and  is 
standing  on  or  Neer  Supowet  Rocke  and  partly  by  a  Creek 
Called  Supowett  Creeke  and  partly  by  Sepowett  neck  which 
...  is  belonging  to  the  said  lands  of  Punckatess  On  the  west 
partly  by  the. .  .Creek  &  Neck  called  Supowett  and  partly  by 
the  Salt  water  or  bay,  and  partly  by  the  Neck  of  land  called 
Nunnaquaqutt  On  the  North  or  Northwerstwardly  by  the 
salt  water  Called  Tanton  River  up  to  the  River  called  the  fall 
river,  and  partly  by  the  head  or  Eastwardly  and  of  the... 
freemens  lands.  .  .and  on  the  East  or  NorthEastwardly. .  .by 
the. .  .freemens  Lands...  as  the...  lands  Extends. .  .into  the 
Cuntry  from  the  Salt  water  called  Tanton  River  neer. .  .the 
place  Called  the  fall  River,  and  partly  by  the  Southwestward 
bounds  of  the  lands  of  Midleburough,  and  partly  by  the  west- 
ward Line  of . .  .  Dartmoth . .  .  Twenty  Eight  day  of  August .  . . 
One  Thousand  Six  hundred  and  Eighty. 
Wit.  Thomas  Waite: 

John  X  Manchester 
his  marke 

Richard  Barnes 

Mary  Billinge — 
. .  .  Sarah  Waite  the  wife  of . .  .  Thomas  Waite  doe . .  .  Asente 
unto. .  .Sale,. .  .6th  day  of  June  1681 

Sarah  X  Waite 
her  marke 
...Thomas  Waite   and     Sarah   his   wife. .  .acknowledged. .  . 
6th  day  of  June  1681 

Before  peleg  Sanford  Govr. 
[218]  William  Makepeace  to  Thomas  Ward. 
. .  .  William  Makepeace  Inhabitant  upon  the  Lands  called  the 
freemens  Lands.  .  .abutting  on  the  Eastward  Side  of  Tanton 
River...  and  Ann  his  wife. .  .for. .  .fifty  pounds  Currant 
silver  mony  of  New  England. .  .paid  by  Thomas  Ward  of 
Newport. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .one  Moiety. .  .of  a  Freemans  Lott 
..  .the  one  and  Twentith  lott  on  the  Eastwardly  Side  of  the 
...Tanton  River, ...in  Bredth...one  hundred  Rods  four 
miles  long  from  the  said  River  Eastwardly,   and  being  the 


151 

Northwardly  side  thereof,  and  alsoe...one  half e... the  land 
belonging. .  .on  Swansey  side,...  the  westerly  side  of  the... 
River,  which  is.,  .two  Sixteen  Acre  lotts..  .and  one  halfe  of 
all  the  Medows  belonging.  .  .on  both  sids  the. .  .river  (Except- 
ing only, . . .  the  Medow . . .  at . . .  Scippican ) ...  with  all . . . 
belonging ...  as  by  a  Deed .  .  .  bearing  date  the  twenty  seventh 
day  of  October. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred  and  Eighty. . . 
if  wee. .  .at  any  time. .  .mollest. .  .Thomas  Ward. .  .then. .  .it 
shall  be  lawfuU. .  .for. .  .Thomas  Ward. .  .to. .  .take. .  .one 
Moiety... of  a  freemans  Lott,...the  fifteenth  lott  on  the 
Eastwardly  side  of  the.  .  .Tanton  River. .  .in  breadth,. ,  .One 
hundred  Rods  being  four  miles  in  length  from  the... River 
Eastwardly,  and  being  the  Southward  side  of  the. .  .Lott,  and 
Adjoining  to  the  land  where. .  .William  Makepeace  now, 
Inhabiteth,. .  .twenty  one  day  of  June...  one  Thowsand  Six 
hundred  Eighty  and  one 
Wit.  William  X  Makepeace 

John  X  Jerson  his  marke: 

his  marke  Ann  X  Makepeace 

Richard  Barnes  her  marke 

Stephen  Arnold 
[220]     Samuell  Hickes  to  Thomas  Ward. 
.  .  .  Samuell    Hixe    of . .  .  Dartmoth . .  .  Yeoman . .  .  f  or . . . thirty 
pounds . . .  paid ...  By  Thomas   Ward   of   Newport   Merchant 
...Have   sold...  full   share   of   a  purchass   Right,. .  .uplands 
and  Medows. .  .being  in  Dartmoth  in  the  Village. .  .of  Acush- 
nett  on  the  west  side  of  the. .  .River,. .  .butting  upon  the  River 
...To  be  Houldon  of  his  Majtie.  as  of  his  Manner  of  East 
Greenwich ...  Ninteenth  day  of  October  One  Thowsand  six 
hundred  seventy-two: 
Wit.  Samuell  Hickes 

James  Shaw  Lidia  Hicks 

Daniell  X  Wilcock  Marke: 
. . .  acknowlidged   by   Samuell    Hicks...  29   of    October    1672 

Will.   Bradford  Asistant 
[221]     Purchassers  of  Pawtuxett  to  Stukely  Wastcote. 
Pawtuxett  Novemr.  the  first  1648: 


152 

Wee  the  purchassers  of  Pawtuxett  have  layd  out  to  Stukely 
Wastcote  Two  hundred  and  fifty  acres  of  upland  to  his  spec- 
tickle  meddow  joyninge. .  .bounded  on  the  Northwest  side 
with  the  Share  layd  out  to  Ezekill  HoUyman,  and  on  the 
Southwest,  with  his  owne  medow  and  Pawtuxett  River, , . . 
tow  hundred  pole . . .  Square, . . .  Witnes  our  hands : 
Richard  X  Waterman  Ezekill  HoUyman 

WilHam  Harris.  John  Green  junr. 

William  Field  in  the  behalfe  of  Richard  Parker 
Richard  Harker. 

Stukely  Westcott  to  Robert  Weskot. 
. .  .Stukely  Westcott  of  Warwick. .  .being  one  of  the  thirteen 
and  a  free  purchasser  of  Pawtuxett. .  .doe. .  .give. .  .unto  my 
son  Robert  Weskot,. .  .my. .  .lands  and  medow. . . 
nth  of  December  1656: 

Wit.  pr  mee  Stukly  Weskot. 

Henry  Reddocke 
John  Wislake: 
•        Samuell  Shivereck  to  John  Reckes. 
. . .  Samuell  Shivereck ...  of  Tanton,  doe  Oblige  my  Self  to 
John  Rekes  to  cleer. . .  from  all  debts.,  .that. .  .may  be  betwixt 
each  other  in    their    Copartnership  Samuell . . .  doe  likewise 
Engage  to  deliver  two  hundred  of  Iron  and. .  .one  great  Vice, 
. ,  .his  working  tooles  unto. .  .John  Reckes.  July  the  8. .  .1680 
Joseph  Hall  Samuell  Shivereck. 

Samll.  Hall. 

[222]     Robert  Westcot  to  Andrew  Harris. 
Providence  13d.  iimth  1656 

...Robert  Westcot  of  Warwick  have  sold  unto  Andrew 
Harris  of  Providence  all  my  Right  in  Pawtuxett,  and  in  per- 
tickular  my  Spectickle  medow,  and  two  hundred  and  fifty 
Acres  by  the  Eighteen  foot  pole  thereto,  adjoyning  and  one 
share  of  six  acres  in  the  last  devision  at  Pawtuxett  neck,  with 
all  my  Right ...  according  to  the  Grant  of  Antenomeah,  and 
Roger  Williams  for  one  horse  and  two  Coults  paid . . .  Received 
by  me  Robert  Westcoate . . . 


153 

Received  by  me  Robert  Westcoate . . . 
Wit.  Robert  Wesscot 

Nicholas  Ide  pr  mee  Stukly  Westkott. 

Thomas  Harris 

Mathew  Greenell  to  Thomas  Manchester. 
. . . Mathew    Greenell    of . . .  Portsmouth . . .  Maulster . . .  for. . . 
six  pounds  Currant  mony  of  New-England. .  .paid  by  Thomas 
Manchester  Junior  of ..  .Portsmouth  Blacksmith,.  .  .Have.  . . 
sold...thre  fourth  parts  of  an  Acre ...  being  at  the  North- 
eastward Corner  of  my  lands  in. .  .Portsmouth. .  .bounded,  on 
the  Northwestward  side  by  the  land  lately  belonging  to  the 
deceassed  Nathaniell  Browninge,  to  extend  from  the  Corner 
tree  at  the  brook  and  Comon  westward  twenty  Rods,  on  the 
Eastward  is  bounded,  by  the  brooke  and  Comon  extending 
from  the  said  Corner  tree  southward  six  Rods  and  a  halfe  to 
a  Rocke,  and  southward  bounded  by  my  lands,  twenty  Rods 
from  the  Brook  and  Comon  to  a  damson  tree,  and  westward 
by  my  lands  Extending  from  the  said  damson  tree  five  Rods 
and  a  halfe  Northward  to  the  lands  lately  belonging  to... 
Nathaniell    Browning:.  .  .Twentith    day    of    February    One 
Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  one : . . . 
Wit.  Mathew  X  Greenell 

John  Sanford  his  marke 

Caleb  Arnold 
William  Corey. 
[224]     William  Coggeshall  to  Roger  Goulding. 
. ,  .William  Coggeshall  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .Yeoman. .  .for. . . 
one  hundred  pounds  Currant  mony  of  New-England. .  .paid 
by    Roger    Goulding    of ..  .Newport^  .  .Marrinor. .  .Have. . . 
sold. .  .my. .  .percell  of  land...  being  in  the  place  called  the 
Comon  fence  in  the  Towneshipp  of  Portsmouth. .  .fifty  Acres 
...bounded    Southwardly   the    land    of    John    Pearce. .  .and 
partly  by  the  Comon,  Southwesterly  is  bounded  by  the  land 
of  Thomas  Hicks,  (by  him  purchassed  of  John  Coggeshall) 
and  on  all  other  parts  is  bounded  by  the  Bay  or  Salt  water. . . 
the  said  land  formerly  belonginge  to  the  deceassed  my  Grand- 
father William  Baulston,  and  by  him  to  mee  bequeathed . . . 


154 

fourth  day  of  March . . .  One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty 

one: 

Wit.  William  Coggeshall 

John  Coggeshall  Rachell  Coggeshall. 

John  Sanford 

David  Lake 
[225]  Robert  Brookes — Land  Recorded. 
. .  .Robert  Brookes  of. .  .Newport. .  .being  in.  .  .posession. . . 
of  land  scittuate. .  .within. .  .Newport. .  .Twenty  five  acres. . . 
bounded  Northward  by  land  belonging  to  Edward  Greenman- 
Eastward  by  the  Comon,  Southward  by  the  Comon  and  hie- 
way,  Westward  part  by  land  belonging  to  Aron  Davis,  and  by 
land  belonginge  to  Edward  Greenman,.  .  .with  all  Dwelling 
or  Mansion  houses,  outhouses,  Barnes,.  .  .Orchards,  Gardens, 
...premisses  are.  .  .Ratefyed.  . .  nth  day  of  Aprill  1682. 
According  to  a  law  made  the  22th  of  May  1662 

John  Sanford  Recorder 
[226]     Job  Almy  to  Thomas  Ward. 

...Job  Almy  of  Portsmouth.  .  .for.  .  .twenty  six  pounds  of 
Currant  Silver  mony  of  New  England,.  .  .paid.  .  .By  Thomas 
Ward  of  Newport.  .  .Have.  .  .sold.  .  .one  fourth  part  of  a 
Share. .  .upland  and  Medow,. .  .being. .  .in  the  Collony  of 
New-Plymoth.  .  .bounded.  .  .On  the  west  by  the  Bay  or  Salt 
watter  neer  Rhode  Island  on  the  South. .  .by  the  Sea,  on  the 
East. .  .by  the  salt  waiter,  and  the  west  line  of  the  Towneship 
of  Dartmoth,  and  Northerly  by  the  South  line  of  Punckatest 
land,  which.  .  .lands.  .  .were  granted  to  the  old  Servants,... 
and  formerly  belonged  unto  my  Brother  John  Almy  of  Ports- 
mouth. .  .Twenty  Ninth  Day  of  Jully...One  Thowsand  Six 
hundred  Eighty  &  one. 
Wit.  Job  Almy 

John  X  Jerson 
his  marke. 

Gilbert  Magick. 

Richard  Barnes. 
. . .  march   the   twenty   first   one   Thowsand    Six   hundred   & 
Eighty  and  one,... Mary  Almy  the  wife  of... Job  Almy... 


155 

consent  to. .  .sale. . . 

Wit,  Mary  Almy 

Phillip  Shearman. 
.  .  .Job    Almy. ,  .in    Newport.  .  .acknowledged    the    above. . . 
may  the  tenth  1682 

Peleg  San  ford  Gover. 
[228]     Christopher  Almy  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Christopher  Almy  of   Portsmouth.  ..  for.  .  .thirty  pounds 
Currant  Silver  mony  of  New  England.  .  .paid. .  .by  Thomas 
Ward  of   Newport. .  .Have. .  .Sold,. .  .one  fourth  part  of  a 
share.,  .both  upland  and  Medow,.  .  .lyinge. .  .in  the  Collony 
of  New-Plymoth.  .  .bounded.  .  .on  the  west  by  the  Bay  or  Salt 
waiter  neer  Rhode  Island,  on  the  South.  .  .by  the  sea,  on  the 
East ...  by  the  Salt  waiter  and  the  west  line  of  the  Towneship 
of  Dartmoth  and  Northerly  by  the  South  line  of  Punkatest 
lands,  which.  .  .were  granted  to  the  old  Servants,.  .  .and  for- 
merly belonged  to  my  Brother  John  Almy  of  Portsmouth. . . 
Ninth  day  of  February.  ..one  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty 
and  one. 
Wit.  Christopher  Almy. 

William  Hiscox 

Richard  Baines 

Mary  BilHng 
. .  .Elizabeth  Almy  the  wife  of  Christopher  Almy  doth. .  .con- 
sent to  sale.  .  .9th  day  of  February  1681 
Wit.  Elizabeth  Almy. 

William  Hiscox 

Richard  Barnes 
...Christopher  Almy. .  .acknowlidged  the   above   written... 
Before  mee  Walter  Clarke  Dt  Gove. 

[229]  William  Earll  to  William  Correy. 
...William  Earll  of  Portsmouth.  .  .Yeoman. .  .for.  .  .full.  . . 
satisfaction. .  .paid  by  William  Correy  of ..  .Portsmouth 
house  Carpenter. .  .Have. .  .Sold. .  .One  third  part  of  a... 
lott.  .  .belonging  to  the  lands  formerly  called  by  the  Names 
of  Acushnett  Ponagasett  Acockesett  &c.  since. .  .Called. .  .the 
Towne  of  Dartmoth. . ..    The  first  Devition  of  the  said  lands 


156 

to  the...  date  hereof ..  .Scittuate  on  the  Westermost  part  of 
my  lands.  .  .Called  the  Westermost  Arme  within.  .  .Dartmoth, 
. .  .with  all. .  .Medows  belonging. .  .To  be  holden  of  his  Maj- 
tie. .  .as  of  his  Manner  of  East  Greenwich. .  .fourth  day  of 
December. . .  1669. 
Wit.  William  Earll. 

Thomas  Fish  -  sen. 

Joseph  Holderbe 
. .  .William  Earle. .  .2nd  of  June  1674. . . acknowlidged . . . 

Before  me  Tho  Hinkly  Assista. 
[230]  William  Manchester  to  Captn.  Wilham  Correy. .  .Wil- 
liam Manchester  of  Punckatest. .  .Yeoman. .  .for. .  .forty  six 
pounds  thirteen  shillings  &  Eight  pence  of  sterling  mony  of 
New-England. .  .paid.  .  .by  Captn.  William  Correy  of  Ports- 
mouth. .  .house  Carpenter. .  .Have. .  .Sold. .  .one  thirtith  part 
of  all  that. .  .land,  at  Pocassett.  .  .bounded.  .  .Northward  and 
Westward  by  the  freemens  lotts  neer  the  fall  River,  and 
westward  by  the  Bay  or  Sound  that  runeth  between  the  Said 
land  and  Rhode  Island,  Southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is  sett 
at  a  great  Rock  on  which  is  a  seader  bush  marked  neer  the 
way  that  leadith  to  Punckatest,  Eastward  to  a  pond  at  Dart- 
moth  Towne  Bounds,  and  westward  to  Suppowett  Creeks 
mouth,  and  partly  by  Dartmoth  bounds,  and  Northward  up 
into  the  woods  to  Midleburrough  Towne  bounds  and  Quit- 
quissitt  Pond  (alwaies  Exceptinge  out  of  this... Sale  Sup- 
pouitt  Neck  of  land,  and  the  medows  to  Punkatest  proprietors, 
and  the  land. .  .granted  by. .  .Plymoth  to  Captn  Richard  Mor- 
ris, and  soe  much.  .  .as  shall  be  allotted  for  the  use  of  the 
ministry)  ..  .which.  ,  .land.  .. I.  .  .with  others  lately  pur- 
chassed  of...Collony  of  Plymoth,.  .  .bearing  date  March  5th 
1 679- 1 680. .  .Eleventh  day  of  October. ..  1681  : 
Wit.  William  X  Manchester 

John  Sanford  his  marke. 

James  Green  .  . .  Mary  Manchester . . .  doe .  . . 

Thomas  X  Manchester  consent     to. .  .Deed. .  .by     my 

his  marke  :  husband .  . . 

Mathew  X  Greenell  Mary  X  Manchester 

his  marke  :  her  marke : 


157 

William  Manchester. .  .29  day  of  April!   1682.  .  .acknowl- 
idged  this.^. .  John  Albro  Asistant 

Edward  Fisher  to  Hannah  Briggs. 
.  .  .Edward  Fisher  senior  of  Portsmouth.  .  .have  given.  .  .unto 
my  daughter  Hannah  Briggs  wife  to  John  Briggs  of.  .  .Rhode- 
Island.  .  .Thirty  Acres  of  land  lyinge  Neer  the  Circuitt.  . . 
being  the... land  which  John  Briggs  hath  in  possession... 
bounded.  .  .upon  francis  Brighten  lands,  at  the  wester  end, 
lyinge  at  the  south  Side  of  Thomas  Waytes  lands,  the  East 
and  south  side  butting  upon  the  Comon,. .  .To  be  holden  as  of 
his  Majtie  his  Manner  of  East  Greenwich. .  .24th  day  of  May 
...1677: 
Wit.  Edward  Fisher: 

Benjamin  Cheacs. 

Elias  Williams : 
[232]  Thomas  Manchester  to  John  Pearce. 
...Thomas  Manchester  Junior  of ..  .Portsmouth.  .  .Black- 
smith. .  .for.  .  .fifteen  pounds  sterling  mony  of  New-England 
...paid...  by  John  Pearce  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .Yeoman,. . . 
Have.  .  .sold,.  .  .one.  .  .fourth  part  of  one  thirtith  part.  .  .of 
all  that  tract  of  land  at  Pocasset.  .  .bounded.  .  .Northward  and 
Westward  by  the  freemens  lotts  neer  the  fall  River  and 
Westward  by  the  Bay  or  Sound  that  Runneth  between  the 
said  land  and  Rhode-Island,  Southward  partly  by  a  line  that 
is  sett  at  a  great  Rock  on  which  is  a  Seader  bush  marked  neer 
the  way  that  leadith  to  Punkatest,  Eastward  to  a  pond  at 
Dartmoth  Towne  Bounds  and  Westward  to  Suppowett 
Creeks  mouth  and  partly  by  Dartmoth  bounds :  and  North- 
ward up  into  the  woods  to  Midlebury  Towne  bound  and 
Quitquissitt  pond  (. .  .Excepted  out  of  this.  .  .Sale  Suppowett 
Neck,... and  the  Medows  to  Punkatest  proprietors,  and  the 
land.  .  .granted. .  .by. .  .Plymoth  to  Captn  Richard  Morris, 
and  soe  much.  .  .for.  .  .the  use  of  the  ministry)  which.  .  .1.  . . 
purchassed  of  William  Manchester  who  with  others. .  .pur- 
chassed     all.  .  .tract     of ..  .Plymoth. .  .by.  .  .Deed. .  .bearinge 


158 

date  March  5tli  1679-1680.  .  .one  and  thirtith  day  of  Decem- 
ber. .  .one  Thowsand  Six  hundred  Eighty  one 
Wit.  Thomas  X  Manchester 

John  Sanford  his  marke. 

Mary  Sanford :  Mary  X  Manchester 

her  marke 

Thomas  Manchester  acknowlidged  March  6,  1681-2 
Wit.  John  Albro  Asistant 

Benjamin  Hall 

X  his  marke 

Francis  Hall 

John  Warner  to  John  Warner. 
...John  Warner...  of  Warwick.  .  .to  my  son  John  Warner 
Have  Given ...  land ...  in  the  Township  of  Warwick ...  that 
.  .  .butteth  over  against  my  now  dwelling  house  on  the  East- 
erly side  of  the  Street  being  Six  Acres... with  the  Orchard 
planted  thereon,  also  two  Six  acre  lotts  adjoyning  together 
and  Scittuate  in  Warwick  Neck  and  bordering  upon  a  hie  way 
that  leads  to  the  Northerly  end  of  the  long  medow  one  of 
which  Lotts  was  formerly  my  Gran  father  mr  Ezeckiell  Holly- 
mans  the  other  belonged  to  John  More  also  I  give  unto  my 
sd  son  my  Medow  share  being  Neer  the  South  end  of  the 
afore-sd  long  medow...  but  if  my  son.  .  .decease. .  .without 
.  .  .heir. .  .the  whole  grant  shall  be  to  my  daughter  Precilla.  .  . 
fourth  of  May  One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  and  three : 
Wit.  John  Warner. 

Benjamin  Gorton 

Benjamin  Barton 
[234]  William  Coggeshall  to  John  Pearce 
...William  Coggeshall  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .Yeoman. .  .for 
. .  .one  pounds  ten  shillings  Currant  mony  of  New  England. . . 
paid  by  John  Pearce  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .Yeoman. .  .have. . . 
sold.  .  .land.  .  .being  in  the  place  Called  the  Comon  fence  in 
the  Towneship  of  Portsmouth,. .  .one  Acre. .  .bounded  North- 
ward partly  by  the  land  of  me. .  .and  partly  by  Sanfords  Cove 


159 

Eastward  by  the  Salt  water  or  sound,  southward  by  the  land 
of... John  Pearce  sold  to  him  by  my  deceassed  Gran  father 
Baulston,  and  westward  by  the  Comon. .  .Twenty  three  day 
of  February. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  one 
Wit.  William  Coggeshall 

John  Sanford  Rachell  Coggeshall 

Mary  Sanford 

Stephen  Brayton 

Anne  X  Brayton 
her  marke : 
[235]     William  Costin— Will. 
. .  .27th  day  of. .  .March  1679. 

. .  .William  Costin  Carpenter  in  the  Narragansett  Cuntry  and 
sixty  years  or  upwards,  the  father  of  Phebe  White. .  .and. . . 

of  Lidia  Dolliver.  .  .Not  to  hinder.  .  .my  aged  wife of  my 

..  .Estate. .  .one   half  e...  to    the    Children    of    my    daughter 
Phebe  White  and  the  other  halfe...to  the  Children  of  my 
daughter  Lidia  Dolliver  after  my  decease  &  my  wife's  decease 
. .  .lett  it  be  in  housing  Orchard. . . 
Wit.  William  Costin 

John  Brigs  senr. 

Francis  X  Brigs 
her  marke 
John  Brigs  of  Kings  Towne  aged  forty  Yeares.  .  .and  francis 
his  wife. .  .Taken  in  King's  Towne. . .  loth  day  of  July  1682 

Walter  Clarke  Dept  Gor 
Caleb  Carr  Assista. 
William  Cadman  Assista. 
William  Coddington  Asista. 
[236]     William  Browne  to  George  Sisson. 
. . .  William  Browne  junr.  of  Salem  in  the  County  of  Essix .  .  . 
Merchant  and  Hannah  his  wife ;  Benjamin  Brown  of  Salem 
...Merchant  and  Peter  Sergeant  of  Boston. ,  .Merchant  as 
Attumey    unto    Thomas    Deane    of ..  .London. .  .Merchant, 
Executors  of. .  .Joseph  Browne  late  of  Charles  Towne  in  New 
England ...  Gierke   deed.  .  .for.  .  .five  hundred   pounds  of... 


i6o 

Currant  mony  of  New  England.  .  .paid.  .  .by  George  Sisson 
of  Portsmouth  in.  .  .Rhode  Island.  ,  .Yeoman.  .  .Have  sold.  . . 
All.  .  .Land  or  farme.  .  .being  within  the  Towneship  of  Ports- 
mouth. .  .Comonly  Called ...  Midleford  farme  late  belonging 
to  the  sd  Joseph  Browne  deed.  .  .two  hundred  and  forty  Acres 
.  .  .bounded  Northerly  by  the  land  of  Mathew  Borden,  East- 
erly by  the  sea  or  sound  Southerly  by  the  land  late  in  the 
Teanure.  .  .of  Thomas  Cooke  senr.  deed,  and  Westerly  partly 
by  the  hie  way  and  Comon  and  partly  by  the  land  latly  in .  . . 
Teanure.  .  .of  John  Cooke  senr.  and  partly  by  the  land  of  the 
late  Widow  Cooke,  and  partly  by  the  land  late  in. .  .Teanure 
...of  Anthony  Shaw...  with  all.  .  .houses,.  .  .yards  gardens 
Orchards,  trees  woods. .  .Swamps  Marshes  Medows  waters 
.  .  .Eleventh  day  of  February.  .  .1681-82. 

Wit. 

John  Hayward  Senr.  Wm  Browne 

Eliezer  Moody  Servt.  Hannah  Browne 

Benj.  Browne 
Peter  Sergeant : 

atturney  of  Tho  Deane 
.  .  .acknowlidged   by.  .  .William   Browne  and   Benj  a  Browne 
and  peter  sergeant. ..  nth  of  February  1681-2 

Before  me  Symon  Bradstreet  Governor 
[238]  John  Cooke  of. .  .Portsmouth. .  .aged  fifty  one  yeares 
...and  John  Cooke  junr  of ..  .Portsmouth  aged  twenty  six 
yeares ...  in ...  March  last...  saw  Major  Peleg  Sanford... 
deliver  the  premisses. .  .unto.  .  .George  Sisson,:  17th  of  July 
1682... 

Wm.  Cadman  Assistant. 
Daniell  Wilcots  to  Joseph  Mory. 
...Daniell  Wilcots  of  Namquid  neer  Punkatest  neck... for 
.  .  .thirty  pounds  sterling  mony  of  New  England.  .  .by  Joseph 
Mory  of  James  Towne  in.  ,  .Rhode  Island.  .  .paid.  .  .Have.  . . 
sold. .  .halfe  of  one  share  of  land  or  sixteenth  part  of  all. . . 
land  at  Pocassett, .  .bounded. .  .Northward  and  Westward  by 
the  freemens  lotts  neer  the  fall  River  and  westward  by  the 


i6i 

bay  or  sound  that  runneth  between  the.  .  .land  and  Rhode 
Island,  Southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is  sett  at  a  great  Rock 
on  which  is  a  seader  bush  marked  neer  the  way  that  leadith 
to  Punkatest,  Eastward  neer  to  a  pond  at  Dartmoth  Towne 
bounds,  and  Westward  to  Supowitt  Creeks  mouth,  and  North- 
ward up  into  the  woods  to  Midlebury  Towne  bounds  and 
Quitquissitt  pond ...  Excepting  out  of  this...  Sale  Suppowitt 
neck  of  land  and  medow.  .  .and  the  land  formerly  granted  by 
the  Court  of  Plymouth  to  Captn  Richard  Morris,  and  soe 
much.  .  .for  the  use  of  the  ministry.  .  .1.  .  .with.  .  .others  pur- 
chassed  of  the  Collony  of  Plymouth.  .  .Deed. .  .bearing  date 
March  5th  1679-80. .  .nine  and  twentith  of  May...  1682: 
Wit.  Daniell  X  Wilcots 

Caleb  Arnold  his  marke 

George  Brownell : 
[240]     Thomas  Terry  to  William  Calhoane. 
.  .  .13  of  January.  .  .1662  or  63  :  block  Island. 
...Thomas  Terrey.  .  .of  Block  Island  planter, ...  Have  sold 
...unto   William   Cahoane.  .  .40  acres.  .  .lying.  .  .upon   block 
Island...  30    acres.  .  .being    pn    the    south    side    of...  the... 
Island  being  the  Easterly  end  of  Thomas  Terrys  great  lott. . . 
bounded  upon  the  hie  way  which  makes  the  devission  in  the 
Island  and  goes  from  mr  Bearings  house  to  the  sea,  Eight 
acres  in  the  planting  Field  at  won  end  or  side  of. .  .Thomas 
Terreys  land  as... William  Cahoan  shall  see  good  alsoe  two 
acres  by  the  salt  pond  side  ond  that  side  where  mr  Bearings 
does  live.  .  .according  to.  .  .deed.  .  .by  mr  John  Alcocke  unto 
Thomas  Terrey.  . . 
Wit.  Thomas  Terrey : 

William  Shepard. 

Peter  Taelman 

William  Cahoone  to  Samuell  Hagbourne. 
...William  Cahoone. .  .for  Valluable  Consideration. .  .re- 
cieved  of  Samuell  Hagbourne  of  block  Island. .  .make  over 
...two  percell .  . .  latly  procured.  .  .of  Thomas  Terrey,  That 
is.  .  .the  thirty  acres  in  the  great  lott,  and  the  eight  acres  in 
the  Neck  or  planting  field.  . .  13th  of  November  1670:. .  .Block 
Island. 


1 62 

Wit.  William  Cohoun. 

Abigail  X  Putney 

her  hand 
Isaac  Negus : 

[241]     Thomas  Terry  to  John  Klarck. 
. .  .20  Aprill. . .  1663  on  Block  Island 

. .  .Thomas  Terrey. .  .of  block  Island  have  sold. .  .unto  John 
Klarck... of  block  Island  fifty  acres... upon  block-Island, 
thirty  eight  acres  of  land  lyinge..  .on  the  South  Side  of  mr 
Terrys  great  lott  next  unto  William  Cahouns  the  same  bredth 
of  Cahoons  land  eight  acres  in  the  planting  field  in  mr  Terrys 
great  lott,  alsoe  next  unto  William  Cahouns  Sixteen  rod  wide 
and  Eighty  Rod  long,  two  Acres  and  a  halfe  of  land  for  a 
house  lott  between  Samuell  Staples  and  Robert  Gutridge,  alsoe 
one  acre  of  Medow  land  in  some  Convenient  place. . . 
Wit.  Thomas  Terrey. 

Pieter  Taelman. 

The  marke  X  of  William  Rieves 

The  marke  X  of  North  Joans. 

Nathaniell  Johnson  to  John  Rathbon. 
Novemb.  .  .2,  1671 

. . .  Assigne  over.  .  .title. .  .in  this  Deed.  .  .to  John  Rathbon.  . . 
Wit.  Nathaniell  Johnson 

Michall  Caly 

The  marke  X  David  Mathews 
of 
[242]     Miantunomu  to  Roger  Williams. 
The  loth  of  the  9th  mon^th  &  the  first  yeare  the  Pequts  were 
subdued. 

Memorand:. .  .John  Winthrop  of  Boston  Ge.  at  present  Gov- 
ernor of  the  Massachusetts)  &  Roger  Williams  of  New  Provi- 
dence in  the  Naniggansick  bay,  have  bought  of  the  2  chiefe 
Sachams  of  Naniggansuck  Miantunomu  &  Cannonicus,  the 
Island  Called  Chibachuwese. .  .in. .  .Naniggansick  bay  for. . . 
20  fathem  of  wampam  and  2  Coats,. .  .promiss. .  .that  if  cat- 
tell  put  thereon... be  hurt  by  natives  they  will  see  satisfac- 
tion . . . 


i63 

Wit.  the  marke  of  X  Cannunicus 

Jo  Throckmorton.  the  marke  of  X  Miantunomu 

Roger  WilHams  to  John  Throckmorton. 
22th  of  2d  month  in  the  14th  yeare  of .  .  .Soverreigne  Lord 
King  Charles. 

...Roger  WilHams  of  New-Providence. .  .for.  .  .monys. . . 
paid...  by  John  Throckmorton  of  New-Providence.  .  .doe.  . . 
sell. .  .all  my.  .  .title. .  .of  the  Island  Called  Chibachusse  now 
Called  Prudence. .  .purchassed  by  mr  John  Winthrop  of 
Boston  and  me  Roger  Williams.  .  .from  Canonicus,  and 
Miantunomu  Chief e  Sachims  of  the  Narrigansets .  . . 
Wit.  Roger  WilHams 

Richard  Scott 

Thomas  Olney 
[243]     John  Throckmorton  to  Richard  Parker. 
. .  .John  Throckmorton  of  Providence  gent.  .  .to.  .  .mr  Rich- 
ard    Parker     of     Boston. .  .Merchant. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .one 
halfe,  of  the  Island  Chabuchuesse  now  called  Prudence  for- 
merly purchassed   of    mr    John    Winthrop    and   mr   Roger 
Williams,  and  by  them  purchassed  of  Connonicus  &  Miantu- 
nomu. .  .twenty  sixt  day  of  June... One  thowsand  six  hun- 
dred fifty  and  four. . . 
Wit.  John  Throckmorton. 

William  HiH. 

Peter  Duncan. 

Hugh  Drury 

Nathaniell  Souther  Not  Publcus 

1654 

Hugh  Drury.  .  .12th  of  May  1682. .  .made 

Oath... 

John  Hull  Assist. 

Peter  Duncan  made  oath : .  . .  30th  of  May 

1682. 

Barth.  Gidney  Assist. 
[244]     Wm  Gerrish  to  Asaph  Eliott. 

...Captn  William  Gerrish  of  Boston. .  .and  Anne  his  wife 
the  only  surviveinge  Childe. .  .of  Richard  Parker  late  of... 
Boston   Gentn   decest . . .  have  given...  unto  Asaph   Eliott  of 


i64 

...Boston  Taylor,  and  Hannah  his  present  wife,  and  Anne 

Paine  spinster  (two  of  the  Grand  Children  of .  .  .mr  Richard 

Parker),  in  equall  halves  the.  .  .moiety  of  the  Island  Called 

Prudance .  . . that  half e.  .  .next  unto  Warwick  and  all  Tenne- 

ments  houses  Barnes.  .  .fences.  .  .second  day  of   October... 

1682: 

Wit.  Wm  Gerrish 

Charles  Buckner  Ann  Gerrish. 

Isa.  Addington 

Captn.  Wm.  Gerrish  and  Anne  his  wife  acknowledged  this 
. .  .Boston  2d  Octo.  1682  Before  me      John  Hull  Assistant 
[245]     John  Tulie  to  Daniell  Vaughan. 

...John  Tulie  now  of  Newport.  .  .have.  .  .sold.  .  .to  Daniell 
Vaughan  of  the  above-said  Towne...all  my  Right  of  Land 
in  the  Towneship  of  East  Greenwich ...  one  tenn  acre  lott 
lying  in  this  Towne  of  East  Greenwich  and  one.  .  .great 
devission  Containinge  Ninty  acres  lying  on  the  East  side  of 
Thomas  Nicolls  his  land,.  .  .fifteenth  of  September  One 
Thowsand  six  hundred  and  Eight  two : 
Wit.  John  Tulie : 

John  Heath 

Charles  X  Macarte 
his  marke 

John  Spencer 

Daniell  Vaughan  to  Phillip  Longe — agreement. 
.  .  .15th  of  September  1682.  .  .wee  daniell  Vaughan  of  New- 
port... and  Phillip  Longe  of...  East  Greenwich.  .  .have.  . . 
agreed... to  chainge  Our  farmes...in  the  Towne  of  East 
Greenwich  each  with  other.  .  .the  twenty  fifth  farme  in  the 
first  devission  which.  .  .Daniell  Vaughan  did  posess  now  is 
Phillip  Longs  and  the  farme  that.  .  .Phillip  Long  did  posess 
.  .  .the  third  farme  in  the  first  devission,  is  Daniell  Vaughans, 
and.  .  .Danill  Vaughan  doe  give.  .  .to  Phillip  Long  a  tenn  acre 
lott  that  was  John  Tulies. . . 
Wit.  Daniell  Vaughan 

John  Heath  Phillip  X  Long 

Charles  X  Mecarte  his  marke  his  marke 

John  Spencer : 


i65 

[246]     Bounds  of  Phillip  Longes  farme. 

.  .  .wee  have  layd  out  to  Phillip  Long  a  farme  or  great  devis- 
sion  lying  in  the  bounds  of  East  Greenwich.  .  .Ninty  acres.  .  . 
bounded.  .  .at  the  North  East  Corner  being  a  white  Oake  tree 
it  being  the  northwest  Corner  of  Clement  Weaver  his  land 
and... ninty  poles  west  unto  a  stake  this  being  the  North 
bounds  which  north  end  is  bounded  on  a  hie  way  of  twenty 
pole  that  lyeth  between  Warwich  and  east  Greenwich  and 
from  the  said  stake  which  is  the  West  bounds  Eight  score 
pole  south  by  leading  trees  to  two  oake  trees  standing 
together  and  one  of  them  is  marked  on  two  sides  this  west 
side  is  bounded  on  a  hie  way  of  Eight  pole  wide,  and  from 
that  said  two  trees  East  by  leading  trees  Ninty  pole  to  the 
stake  that  is  the  above-said  Weavers  southwest  Corner,  and 
from  the  stake  Eight  score  pole  on  a  straight  line  to  the  first 
mentioned  white  Oake  being  the  East  line,  and  the  west  line 
of  the  afore-said  Weaver  his  land.  .  .layd  out  by  us  Chose.  . . 
to  Survay. .  .the  farmes 

East  Greenwich  Samuell  Bennett 

March  19th,  1680-81  John  Spencer 

John  Spencer  Towne  Gierke. 

John  Tift— Will. 
...Thirtith  day  of  November.  .  .one  Thowsand  six  hundred 
seventy  &  four.  .  .unto  my  sonn  in  law,  Samuell  Wilson  my 
now  dwelling  house  in  Pettacomscutt . .  .  with  my  house  lott 
...of  Twenty  Acres... with  all  yards  gardens  Clossures... 
that  my  wife  Mary  Tift  shall  have  all  my  Cattell  or  Chattells 
.  .  .two  Oxen  two  Cowes,  two  yearling  Steers,  Eight  of  swine 
kind,  and  one  Ewe  &  a  lamb.  .  .with  all  moveables  of  house- 
hold Stuff, . . .  my  Sonn  Samuell  Tift  shall  have  two  shillings 
and  my  Sonn  Joshua  Tift... one  shilling,  and  my  daughter 
Tabiatha  Tift  one  Shilling,  as  alsoe  one  Iron  pott.  . . 
Wit.  John  X  Tift 

William  Hiffernan  his  marke 

Allexander  X  King  his  marke. 

. .  .Satisfyed. .  .Octo.  19th  1679: 


1 66 

Maxy  X  Tift 
her  marke 

Tabiathy  X  Gardner  her 

marke 

James  Donallsone  his 

marke  X 
[247]     George  Sissons  land  bounded. 

Wee ...  are ...  appointed ...  by  the  freemen  of ...  Portsmouth 
..  .to. .  .straighten  the  Hnes  of  mens  lands... and  alsoe  of 
former  lines  lost,.  .  .being  desired  by  George  Sisson  of  said 
Towne,  to  run  the  head  line  of  his  farme,  by  him  lately  pur- 
chassed  of  mr  William  Browne,  mr  Benjamin  Browne  &c 
which.  .  .formerly  belonginge  to  the  late.  .  .mr  William  Bren- 
ton  (&  called  Midleford) .  .  .lyinge  in. .  .Towneship  of  Ports- 
mouth. .  .at  the  North-west  Corner  by  a  white  oak-tree  stand- 
ing in  Mathew  Bordens  Stone  wall,... and  from  the  white 
oake  on  a  streite  Hne  Southerly  to  a  great  black  oak  standing 
neer  the  old  raile  fence,  and.,  .on  a  streite  line  Southerly  to 
a  Stake  by  us  sett  by  Anthony  Shaws  stone  wall,  and  standeth 
about  thirteen  foot  to  the  westward  of  an  old  hollow  wind 
shaken  ash  stump  that  hath  some  liveing  branches ;  and  from 
that  stake  southerly  wee  have.  .  .sett  the  Remaininge  part.  . . 
by  stakes  pitcht  and  marked  trees  the  whole  length ...  Eight 
day  of  Felbruary  1682-3: 

Francis  X  Brayton  George  Lawton 

his  marke  John  Albro 

John  Sanford:  John  X  Brigs  senr. 

his  marke 
[248]  John  Warner  to  Gidion  Freeborne. 
...John  Warner  of ..  .Warwick. .  .for. .  .forty  and  three 
pounds  Sterling  mony  of  New  England ...  by  Gidion  Free- 
borne  of  Portsmouth  Yeoman . .  .  paid . .  .  Have . .  .  Sold . . . 
Three. .  .quarters. .  .of  a  purchass  share. .  .lying. .  .to  the 
westward  of  the  bounds  of  the  Towneship  of. .  .Warwick,. .  . 
called. .  .Coweesitt  (there  being  seventeen  shares  in  the  whole 
purchass) . .  .two  and  twentith    day  of  December.  .  .  1682. .  . 


i67 

Only  Excepting. .  .seven  hundred  and  fifty  acres  out  of  this 

. . .sale. . . 

Wit.  John  Warner. 

Caleb  Arnold 

Henry  Timberlake : 

Wm  Manchester  &  Mathew  Greenehill  to  Thomas  Ward, 
. .  .William  Manchester  of  Punkatest. .  .planter,  and  Mathew 
Greenehill  of  Portsmouth. .  .Maulster. .  .for. .  .Thirty  pounds 
Currant  Silver  mony  of  New  England. .  .paid.  .  .By  Thomas 
Ward  of  Newport. .  .Merchant. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .one  Moiety 
...of  a  share  or  thirtith  part  of  all... land  at  Pocassett... 
bounded . .  .  Northward  and  westward  by  the  f  reemens  lotts 
neer  the  fall  river  partly  by  Tanton  River,  Southwestward  by 
the  bay  or  sound  that  runnith  between  the  said  land  and 
Rhode-Island,  southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is  sett  at  a 
great  Rock  on  which  is  a  ceder  bush  marked  neer  the  way 
that  leadith  to  Punckatest  and  partly  by  the  North  line  of  the 
Towne  of  Dartmouth,  and  North  Eastward  up  into  the  woods 
to  Midleburough  Towne  bounds  and  Quitquissitt  pond,  and 
the  west  line  of  the... Towne  of  Dartmoth,  (always  Ex- 
cepted Out  of  this. .  .Sale  Suppowitt  neck. .  .and  the  medows 
belonging  to  Punkatest  proprietors,  and  the  land. .  .granted 
by ...  Plymouth  to  Captn.  Richard  morris)  ..  .which. .  .Land 
. .  .William  Manchester  with, .  .others. ,  .purchassed  of . .  . 
Plymouth. .  .Deed.  .  .bearinge  date  March  5th  1679-80:. .  .sixt 
day  of  October. .  .one  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  and 
two: 
Wit.  William  X  Manchester 

Phillip  Smith  his  marke 

Thomas  X  Manchester  Mathew  X  Greenhill 

his  marke  his  marke 

Mary  Billing 
...William  Manchester    and    Mathew   Greenhill, ,  .acknowl- 
idged..  .October  6th  1682:  Before 

peleg  Sanford  Governor. 
[249]      Samuell  Hickes  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Samuell   Hickes   of    Dartmouth ...  for ...  four   pounds    of 


i68 

Currant  Silver  mony  of  New  England. .  .paid. .  .by  Thomas 
Ward  of  Newport. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .percell  of  lands  lyinge. . . 
in  the...Towne  of  Dartmouth. .  .twenty  Acres  and  bounded 
. .  .on  the  North  by  the  land  of. .  .Thomas  Ward  on  the  East 
by  salt  medows  belonging  to. .  .Thomas  Ward  and  salt  water, 
on  the  south  by  a  hie  way,  on  the  west  by  undevided  lands  as 
it  is  now  layd  out,...  with  all ...  buildings  Orchards ...  four- 
teenth day  of  March . .  .  One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty 
and  two 
Wit.  Samuell  X  Hickes 

Stephen  Mumford  his  marke 

Mary  Arnold 

Mary  Billing: 
. .  .Samuell  Hickes.  .  .acknowlidged. .  . 

Walter  Clarke  Dept  Governor. 
[250]  Samuell  Wilson  to  Thomas  Ward. 
...Samuell  Wilson  of  Pettacomscutt ...  Twenty  pounds  Cur- 
rant Silver  mony. .  .paid. .  .By  Thomas  Ward  of  Newport.  .  . 
Have. .  .Sould. .  .the  forty  and  two  part  of  all. .  .lands  both 
upland  and  Medow  land ...  within ...  Petaquamscutt .. . 
bounded... by  the  sea  from  point  Judith  to  Petticomscutt 
River,  and  soe  to  the  head  of  the  pond  called  Quaskakaon- 
kanuck  which  pond  lyeth  about  Northwest  from  the  Mill,  and 
from  that  pond  on  a  Northwest  line  six  miles  alsoe  on  a  west 
line  drawne  from  the  head  of  the  Cove  North  of  Point  Judith 
Neck  six  miles  and  a  halfe,  and  soe  on  a  straight  line  from 
the  head  of  the  afore-said  Northwest  line  unto  the  head  of  the 
said  west  line  of  six  miles  and  a  halfe,  and  thence  on  the 
same  straight  line  to  the  sea  or  south  shore,  and  on  the  south 
by  the  sea,  (reserveing  out  of  the. .  .whole  tract  according  to 
proportion  Eight  hundred  acres  to  be  layd  out  to  the  heires 
...of  Benedict  Arnold  and  Samuell  Wilbore  by  an  Agree- 
ment of  the  Company  of  purchassers.  .  . )  which  said  forty 
two  part  Containeth. .  .seven  hundred  acres, ...  with  all... 
woods  waters,. .  .fourteenth  day  of  December. .  .One  Thows- 
and six  hundred  Eighty  two: 
Wit.  Samuell  Wilson 


1 69 

John  X  Phillips 
his  marke 

William  Hiscox 
. . .  Samuell  Wilson . . .  acknowledged  the  above . . .  Before  me 
Walter  Clarke  Dpt  Govr. 
[252]     George  Sisson  to  John  Cooke, 

...George  Sisson  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .for. .  .the  makeing  of 
forty  seven  Rods  of  good  Suffitient  Stone  wall,  By  John 
Cooke  son  of  the  late  deceassed  Captn  Thomas  Cooke 
of .  .  .  Portsmouth, . .  .  Have . .  .  sold . .  .  land  lying . .  .  within  the 
bounds  of ..  .Portsmouth  Containeing  one  Acre  and  a  halfe 
...  on  the  Northward  by  a  Straight  line  runninge  westward 
as  the  Northerly  line  of  the  lands  latly  belonging  to  the  de- 
ceassed Thomas  Cooke  senr.  Extends,  and  soe  from  the  uper 
Corner  of  that  line  to  the  hie  way.  Eastward  and  Southward 
upon  the  afore-said  lands  latly  belonging  to . . .  Thomas  Cooke 
senr,  and  westward  is  bounded  by  the  hie  way.  .  .twelfth  day 
of  May. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  three — . 
Wit.  George  Sisson 

John  Sanford 

James  X  Hall 
his  marke : 

Peter  Talman  to  Thomas  Durfee. 
...Peter  Talman  junior  late... of  Portsmouth  Now  of  the 
Towne  of  Gilford  in  the  County  of  New  Haven ...  Conecti- 
cutt. .  .Cor-wainer. .  .for. .  .Twelve  pounds  of  Currant  mony 
of  New  England. .  .paid  by  Thomas  Durfee  of. .  .Portsmouth 
. . .  Yeoman . .  .  Have . .  .  sold . .  .  Land  lyinge ...  in  the  place 
called  the  Comon  fence  in .  .  .  Portsmouth . . .  Eight  Acres . .  . 
bounded  Northwardly  by  the  land  of  Richard  Bulger  East- 
wardly  by  Pocassett  River,  Southwardly  by  the  humuck 
Comonly  Called  Samuell  Hutchinsons  humuck,  Westwardly 
by  the  great  Cove. .  .alsoe  the  full  Right  of  a  hie  way  [pur- 
chassed  of  Richard  Bular  (as  Exprest  in  writeing) ...  Eight 
day  of  June... One  Thowsand  Six  hundred  Eighty  three — : 
Wit.  Peter  Talman 

John  Sanford 

Mary  Sanford 


170 

[253]     Thomas  Lynch  to  Captn  Thomas  Paine. 

(Jemeco  Ss) 

Sr.  Thomas  Lynch  Knight  One  of  the  Gentlemen  of  his 
Majties.  Bed  Chamber  Capt.  Genii,  and  Governor,  in  Chiefe 
of  this  his  Majties.  Island  of  Jameco  and  Territories. .  .de- 
pending &  Vice  Admiral  to  his  Royall  Highness  James  Duke 
of  Yorke  in  the  American  Seas. 

...I  am  Informed  there  are  severall  Pyratte  that  have  most 
barbarously  Murthered  divers  of  his  Majties.  Subjects:  robed 
others  &  taken  severall  Vessalls. .  .not. .  .pretending. .  .to 
have  any  Comission  of  Warr:  These  are. .  .to  Authoreize  you 
Captn  Thomas  Paine  Comander  of  the  Frigatt  Pearle.  to 
Seize... kill  and  distroy  the  said  Pyratts  and  their  ships... 
I.  .  .Assure  you  and  yor  men.  .  .you  shall  have  all  the  favour 
they  cann  Expect  or  I  Render  you  and  them...  13th  day  of 
October  1682: 

By  his  Excelency  Comand — )     Thomas  Lynch. 
Henry  Harrington  Sery:) 
I  have  by  his  Exelly's  Order 
affixed  the  seale  of  the  Admiralty: 

[two  Illegible  signatures] 
[254]  Thomas  Manchester  to  Mathew  Borden. 
.  .  .  Thomas  Manchester  of .  .  .  Portsmouth . .  .  Black-smith . . . 
for... Thirty  seven  Pounds  in  Currant  New-England  mony 
. .  .paid  by  Mathew  Borden  of. .  .Portsmouth  Yeoman,. . . 
Hath. .  .Sold,.  .  .one  half  e...  of  one  whole  share  or  thireth 
part  of  all...  land  at  Pocassett. .  .bounded. .  .Northward  and 
Westward  by  the  freemens  Lotts  neer  the  fall  River  and 
Westward  by  the  Bay  or  sound  tht  Runneth  between  the  said 
Land  and  Rhode  Island.  Southward  partly  by  a  line  that  is 
sett  at  a  great  Rock  on  which  is  a  Seader  Bush  marked  neer 
the  way.  that  leadith  to  Punckatest,  Eastward  to  a  pond  at  a 
Dartmouth  Towne  Bounds  and  Westward  to  Sapowett  Creeks 
mouth,  and  partly  by  Dartmouth  bounds,  and  Northward  up 
into  the  woods  to  Midlebury  Towne  bounds  and  Quitquissitt 
Pond  (alwaies  Exceptinge  Out  of  this . .  .  Suppowett  neck... 
and   Medows  belonginge  to   Punckatest  proprietors  and  the 


171 

land  formerly  granted  by. .  .Plymouth  to  Capt.  Richard 
Morris,  and  soe  much... as  shall  be... for  the  use  of  the 
ministry) ..  .which. .  .Land  William  Manchester  with... 
others. .  .purchassed  of. .  .Plymouth,. .  .Deed. .  .beareing  date 
March  5th  1679-1680. .  .twelfth  day  of  February.  .  .1682 
Wit.  Thomas  X  Manchester  junr. 

his  marke 
John  Sanford  February  12th  1682-3.  .  .Mary  the  wife 

John  X  Manchester  of.  .  .Thomas  Manchester.  .  .consent  to 
his  marke.  .. .  .sale.  . . 

Wm.  Cadman  Assistant. 
I255J  John  Pocoke  to  Captn  John  Browne. 
...John  Pocoke...  of  Newport. .  .for. .  .Ninty  Pounds  of 
Currant  New-England  Silver  mony.  .  .paid  by  Captn  John 
Browne  of...Swansey  in  the  Collony  of  Plymouth ...  Have 
...sold... a  Certaine  hourd  or  Tennement  with  the  Lott  of 
Land  it  stands  upon  within  the  Towne  of  Newport... 
bounded... on  the  North  by  the  street  on  the  West  by  the 
Lott  of... Thomas  Rodman,  on  the  East  by. .  .Land. .  .of 
John  Holmes  on  the  South  by  a  Lott. .  .of  Christopher  Almy 
...forty  foot  square. .  .if ..  .John  Pocoke. .  .pay.  .  .unto. .  . 
Captn  John  Browne. .  .before  the  last...  of  October. .  .One 
Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  and  Eight ...  Ninty  pounds  of 
Currant  New  England  Silver  mony  with.  .  .interest. .  .annu- 
ally..  .this. ..  Peed. .  .shall  be  voyd  and  of  none  Efect... 
Twenty  second  day  of  June... One  Thowsand  Six  hundred 
Eighty  and  three. 

Wit.  John  Pocoke. 

Andrew  Willett. 
Thomas  Terrey. 
John    Pocoke ...  28th    of   July. .  .acknowlidged   the   above... 

Caleb  Carr  Assistant. 
[256]     Thomas  Deane  to  George  Sisson. 
. .  .  Thomas  Deane  of  London  Merchant  One  of  the  Execu- 
tors  of   the. .  .Will. .  .of    Joseph     Browne    late   of    Charles 
Towne...  in  the  Massachussets  Collony. .  .Clerke  deced  and 
Anne  wife    of...  Thomas  Deane. .  .Doe. .  .Surrender. .  .unto 


172 

George  Sisson  of  Portsmouth ...  Rhode  Island. .  .Yeoman. .  . 
percell  of  Land  or  f  arme  Comonly  Called . .  .  Middlef  ord 
Farme, . .  .  within . .  .  Portsmouth . .  .  lately       belonging       to . .  . 

Joseph  Browne  deceasd two  hundred  and  Forty  Acres... 

And^.  .Doe.  .  .Ratefy..  .The.,  .sale.,  .from  William  Browne 
and  Benjan.  Browne  the  other  Executors ...  and  Peter  Ser- 
jeant as  Attorney. .  .unto. .  .George  Sisson. .  .Thirteenth  day 
of  August. .  .1683.. . 
W^it  Tho:  Deane 

Joseph  Dudly  Ann    Deane 

John  Richards. 
[257]  Nathanill  Sylvester  to  James  Lloyd. 
...my  son  in  law  James  Lloyd  of  Boston  Mercht.  hath... 
sett  over  unto  me.  Nathaniell  Silvester  of  Shelter  Island  all 
his  Right. .  .to  Horse  Necke  lying  in  the  bounds  of. .  .Oyster 
Bay  with  the  Medows  at  the  South ...  I  doe ...  at  the  Request 
of  James  Lloyd... give  him  a  Deed  of  sale  for... Horse 
Necke  and  Premises,. .  .Shelter  Island  Novemr.  the  5th  1678: 
"VVit.  Nathaniell  Sylvester 

G.  Sylvester 

Nathll  Sylvester. 
...30th  of  August  1680:  Gyles  Silvester  and  Nathaniell  Syl- 
vester..  .above. .  .was. .  .act    of    Nathaniell    Sylvester    their 
father. . . 

Peleg  Sanford  Governor. 
George  Sisson  to  Henry  Brightman. 
. .  .George  Sisson  of. .  .Dartmouth. .  .for.  .  .one  hundred  and 
sixty  two  pounds  Currant  mony  of  New  England . .  .  payd . .  . 
by . .  .  Henry  Brightman  of . .  .  Portsmouth . .  .  Have . . .  sold . .  . 
Land. .  .within. .  .Towneship  of  Portsmouth. .  .adjoyninge  to 
the  Hunting  Swamp  Containeing.  .  .Forty  five  acres. .  .by  me 
purchassed  of  William  Wood  Thirty  Acres  thereof  now  in  the 
posession  of  me... the  rest... being  now  in  the  posession  of 
Hugh  Parsons  his  wife  and  after  her  decease — Shall  Returne 
to  Henry  Brightman;. .  .the  aforesaid  forty  five  Acres  of... 
Land. .  .bounded — Easterly  by  the  late  deceassed  Thomas 
Lawtons  Hunting  Swamp  farme,  Southerly  by  the  Land  of 


173 

William  Correy,  Westerly  partly  upon  the  land  of  the  said 
Correy  and  part  on  the  Comon,  Northerly. .  .by  the  hie  way 
and  Comon,. .  .with  all. .  .Mansion  or  dwelling  houses,  barnes. 
Outhouses  fruite  trees  Orchards. .  .third  day  of  March... 
One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  one. 
Wit.  George  Sisson 

John  San ford 
Isaac  Lawton. 

February    6t     1683. .  .George    Sisson... ac- 
knowlidged. .  . 

George   Lawton   Assistant 
February  the  6t  1682-3. .  .Sarah  the  wife  of. .  .George  Sisson 
. . .  Consent . . .  to . . .  Deed . .  . 

George  Lawton  Assistant 

[259]  John  Williams  acquitts  Thomas  Terry. 
...John  Williams  of  Boston. .  .Mercht.  Doe  acquitt... 
Thomas  Terry  of  Block  Island  alias  New-Shorrum  of  all 
debts...  29  of  August  1677:...  doe  alsoe  discharge. .  .Terry 
as  Attorny  to  Captn  Williams  from  the  debt  of  William 
Harris 

Wit.  Jno  Williams, 

his 

John  X  Rathbone 
marke 

George  Halsall : 

John  Green  to  James  Greene. 
.  .  .John  Green  of  Aquidnesett. .  .in  the  Narragansett  Cuntry 
. .  .thirtie  shillings  in  Currant  mony  of  New  England  to  be 
paid. .  .Yearly. .  .unto  John  Green...  and  after  his  decease 
to  Joane  Greene,  his  wife... By  James  Greene  (the  natural 
son  of  John  and  Joan  Greene. .  .  )  . .  .Have  Given. .  .Land 
..  .lying. .  .at  Aquednessett. .  .now  in  the  posession  of... 
James  Greene ...  sixty  Acres. .  .bounded. .  .Northerly  by  the 
land.  .  .John  Greene  Easterly  by  quidnesett  harbour.  South- 
erly by  a  River  or  brook  and  land  of  Daniell  Greene,  and 
Westerly  by  a  hie   way,...  with   all. .  .wood,. .  .Quarries,. .  . 


174 

water  courses,  buildings ...  at  the  decease  of...  John  and 
Joane  Greene. .  .James  Greene. .  .shall  have ...  the ...  Prem- 
ises forever. .  .Twenty  fourth  day  of  March. .  .one  Thowsand 
six  hundred  Eighty  &  one  or  two . .  . 

Wit.  John  Greene 

Henry  X  Tibbitts 

his  marke. 
Arthur  Aylworth 
John  Nutsn : 
John  Greene ...  24th  of  march  1681-82  acknowlidged  this... 

John  Foanes  Wardn. 
[261]     Job  Almy  to  Jedidiah  Allin. 

. .  .  Job  Almy  of . .  .  Portsmouth . . .  for . . .  forty  five  pounds 
Currant  mony  of  New  England. .  .paid  by  Jedidiah  Allin  of 
. .  .  Sandwich  in  the  Collony  of  New-Plymouth . . .  doe . .  .  sell 
...share  of  land... in  the  Towneship  of  Shrosebury  in  the 
Government  of  East  Gersey  (Excepting  Only  in  this. .  .sale  a 
house  lott . . .  neer  the  Meeting  house  in . .  .  Shrosebury  and  a 
percell  of  medows  formerly  sold  by  John  Chamnies)  The 
great  lott  alredy  devided. .  .adjoyninge  to  the  land  belonging 
to  the  Children  of  the  deceassed  Bartholmew  West. .  .with  all 
. .  .medows. .  .Premisses. .  .are  cleer. .  .from  all. .  .Incumber- 
ances. .  .Especially  from  any  thing  acted  Concerning  the 
premisses  by  my  brother  Christopher  Almy — . .  .Eight  day  of 
November ...  One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  three: 
Wit.  Job  Almy 

John  Sanford  Mary  Almy 

Mary  Sanford 
Eliphall  Sanford. 
Job  Almy... with  his  wife  Mary... did  acknowlidge  this... 
28th  of  January  1683 

John  Albro  Assistant 
[262]     Mamanuett  to  Daniell  Wilcock, 

...Mamanewot  Chife  Sachem  &  Proprietor  of  Saconett  and 
the  lands  adjacent. .  .for. .  .many. .  .Curtecies. .  .in  the  time 
of  my  great  distress. .  .which. .  .amount  to  the  Valine  of .  .  . 
one  hundred  Pounds. .  .Give. .  .unto  my. .  .friend. .  .one  hun- 


175 

dred  Acres  of  land.  .  .unto. .  .mr  Daniell  Wilcock  of  Naum- 
quid. .  .bounded. .  .Eastwardly  with  partly  Dartmouth  line 
and  partly  with  the  River,  Southerly  with  a  Swamp  Called .  .  . 
Semsuett,  Easterly  from  that  spring  to  the  Salt  river,  and 
westerly  from  the  spring  up  the  hill  till  we  came  to  a  small 
Indian  field  to  a  heap  of  stones,  and  from  that  stone  heap 
Northerly  till  we  come  to  a  great  white  oake  tree;  which 
standith  in  the  line  between  Aldermans  land  and  the  land 
mentioned  in  this  Present  Deed, . .  .  Northerly  with  Aider- 
mans  land  till  we  come  to  a  black  oake  neer  the  great  River, 
...Twenty  third  day  of  June... one  Thowsand  Six  hundred 
Eighty  three : — 

Wit.  The  marke  of  Sachem 

Thomas  Gatchell  Mamanuett  X 

Joshua  Rawlins. 
The  marke  X  of  John 
Mamuetts  son  and  heire 
to  the  said  Sachem. 
Richard  Bulgar 
Sachem  Mamiett. .  .owned  this. .  .26  of  June  1683 

John  Albro  Assistant 
[263]     Mamamutt  to  Alderman. 

...Mamamutt  Chief e  Sachem  and  Proprietor  of  Saconett... 
for. .  .service  done...  in  the  late  warr. .  .doe. .  .Give. .  .an 
Indian  Called.  .  .Alderman  now  liveing  neer  Punckatest  pond 
...one  hundred  Acres. .  .bounded. .  .the  Northermust  line 
devideth  the  two  Townships  of  Pocassett  and  Saconett  land 
East... with  dartmouth  line,  Southeast  with  a  Black  oake, 
westerly  till  it  corns  to  a  white  Oake  marked  on  four-sides 
and  from  thence  to  a  Red  Oake  more  westerly  Standing  neer 
to  the  top  of  a  hill,. .  .Twenty  two  day  of  June. .  .One  Thows- 
and six  hundred  Eighty  three — . 
Wit.  The  marke  X  of  Sachem 

Thomas  Gatchell  Mamamewot 

Joshua  Rawlins 
The  marke  X  of  John  Mamanuett 
son  of. .  .Sachim  the  marke  of 

The  marke  of  Isaac  Daniel  X  Wilcocke  upon 

Isacke  an  Indian  the  Request  of  the  Sachem. 


176 

[264]     Testamony  of  Elizabeth  Gould. 

...it  hath  been. .  .reported. .  .That  William  Coggeshall. .  .of 
Portsmouth . .  .  was  Only  the  Reputed  son  of  mr  John  Cog- 
geshall of ..  .Newport. .  .1  Elisabeth  Gould  Now  wife  of 
Thomas  Gould  of  Kings  Town... the  Only  Naturall  Mother 
of... William  Coggeshall,  And  formerly  wife  unto. .  .mr 
John  Coggeshall :  Doe  declare . . .  That .  .  .  mr  John  Coggeshall 
...is  the  Only  Naturall  father  of... William  Coggeshall... 
begett. .  .before  I  was  Parted  from  him  being  then  his 
wife :. .  . 

Upon  Oath  the  4th  of  Septembr 1684. 

Before  me  Will.  Coddington  Govr 
John  Dunham  to  John  Brigs. 
...John  Dunham  Senr.  of  the  Towne  of  Plymouth, ..  .Yeo- 
man. .  .   For. .  .Forty  and  two  pounds. .  .paid  by  John  Brigs 
Senr    of . .  .  Portsmouth .  .  .  Yeoman . .  .  have . .  .  Sold ...  all     my 
Lott. .  .in  the  places  Comonly  Called. .  .by  the  Indian  Names 
of  Acushnett  Coaksett ...  in  the  Jurisdiction  of  Plymouth . .  . 
with  all... woods  waters  Medows...to  be  Houlden  as  of  his 
Majtie.  his  manner  of  East  Greenwich. .  .sixt  day  of  October 
. . . 1662 
Wit.  John  Dunham. 

Nathaniell  Morton 

The  marke  of 

X  Jonathan  Pratt. 
[265]     Peter  Bussecot  grant  confirmed  to  John  Warner. 
...Peter      Bussecot      of ..  .Warwick. .  .yeares      since...  Did 
Grant. .  .unto  mr  Ezekiell  Hollyman  deceased,. .  .One  parcell 
of  Land  or  house  lott  scittuate.  .  .in.  .  .the  Town  of  Warwick 
bounded  on  the  North  Side  with  a  small  brook  or  river,  and 
Easterly  by  the   street   directly   over  aginst   mr.   Hollymans 
former  dwelling  and  bounded  southerly  by  the  Comon,  and 
also  Westerly  bounded  by  the  Comon.  And ...  as  John  Warner 
of  the  Town. .  .above-said   is  the...heire  unto  mr  Ezekiell 
Hollyman  his  Grand  father  by  Parantage ;  I. .  .Doe. .  .Ratefy 
..  .my.  .  .Bargain.  .  .tenth  day  of   March.  . .  1681-2: 
Wit.  Peter  X  Bussecot 

Moses  Lippit.  his  marke 


177 

Hugh  X  Stone 
his  marke. 

Phillip  Sweet  to  John  Warner. 
. .  .PhilHp  Sweet  Now  Resident  in  Kings  Town. .  .by  the  Con- 
sent of  my  father  James  Sweet  senr.  of. .  .Kings  Town. .  .for 
...full  satisfaction, .  .Paid. .  .by  John  Warner  of...  War- 
wick..  .doe. .  .sell. .  .a  house  Lott. .  .twelve  Acres. .  .in. . . 
Warwick  Town,  butting  Easterly  upon  the  main  street  of  the 
said  Town  and  joyning  Northerly  upon  sd  John  Warners 
land,  which  he  the  said  Warner  now  dwellith  upon,  the  brook 
being  only  between.  And  southerly  by  a  hie  way  and  Comon, 
And  alsoe  one  Township  Right  in  all  undevided  Lands  belong- 
ing to  the  said  Town,  and  also  a  share  of  boggy  medow  On 
the  Easterly  Side  of  the  Spruce  Swamp,  And  a  share  of  bog- 
gle medow  at  Touskeounk  on  the  southerly  side  of  the  River 
called  Patuxet  river  the  which  two.  .  .shares  of  boggy  medow 
..  .are. .  .Known. .  .by  the  Names  of  James  Sweets  medow, 
with  halfe  the  third  Lott  in  Number  layd  out  in  Potowomett 
Neck  lately  by  John  Smith  Surveyer.  .  .the  above  said  twelve 
acre  Lott  and  Township  being  first  granted  by  sd  Town  unto 
Peter  Bussecot .  . .  Excepting  Only  all  my  Right  of  Lands  upon 
the  Northerly  side  of  Patuxett  River  within  the  Township  of 
sd  Warwick.  .  .L  .  .by  the  consent  of  my  father.  .  .and. .  .of 
my  mother  Mary  Sweet.  .  .Doe.  .  .absolutely.  .  .disclaim.  . . 
tenth... of  September. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty 
and  four,. . .  the  marke  of 

Wit.  Phillip  X  Sweet 

John  Potter  his  marke 

James  Green  junr.  James    X  Sweet 

Nathaniell  Osband  her  marke 

Mary  X  Sweet 
Received  from  Mordica  Bouden. 
. . .  Peleg  Sanf  ord  Esq.  Recovered  a  Judgment  against  Mor- 
dica Bouden  of  Rhode  Isle  of  Thirty  five  pounds... due  to 
mr  John  Winslow  deceassed.  .  .after  said  Bowdens  long  Im- 
prisonment severall  Charges  did  arise,  and  he  was  forced  to 
take  part  of  a  small  house  and  land. .  .which,  .  .amounts  to 


178 

but  Eighteen  pound.  .  .December  i6:  1684. 

Elisha  Hutchinson  Administrator 
to  the  Estate  of  Jos.  Winslow 
[267]     Testemony  of  John  Sanford  and  John  Porter. 
.  .  .the  litle  Island  lying  in  the  bay  on  the  North  side  of  the 
Wading  River  was  given   mr  Dyre  by  the   Purchassers   31 
October  1650 

Jno  Sanford 
...  above ...  were  by  my  fathers  Order.  .  .by  me  written  my 
father  then  being  very  sick. .  .4th  of  October  1669 

John  Sanford. 
. .  .as  wee  put  along  by  the  afore-said  Island  the  Purchassers 
gave  the . . .  Island  to  mr  William  Dyre 
No.  I.  1650.  John  Porter. 

Testemony  of  Roger  Williams  and  Captn  Randall  Houldon. 
Newport.  .  .10  Novembr  1664  (ut  vulg) 

. ,  .Roger  Williams  being  acquainted.  .  .with  the  first  Concep- 
tion Birth  and  Growth  of  Rhode  Island  (alias  Aquednick) 
doe  Asert.  .  .that  by. .  .the  first  Purchassers  of  Rhode  Island 
. .  .the  little  Island  Comonly  Called  Dyres  Island  was  from  the 
first  and  all  ways  (Some  times  in  Meriment)  but  always  in 
Earnist  granted .  . .  mr  William  Dyre  of  Newport .  . . 

Roger  Williams  Asista : 
Captn  Randall  Houldon  of  Warwick ...  aged  57  years...  the 
Purchassers  gave  that  litle  Island  Called  Dyres  Island  to  mr 
William  Dyre  senr  that  was  then  one  of  us .  .  .  24th  day  of 
June  1669: 

by  me  John  Cranston  Assistant. 

Testemony  of  William  Coddington  and  others. 
. .  .wee  the  Purchassers  of  Rhode  Island  (my  selfe  being  the 
chief)  William  Dyre  desireing  a  spot  of  land  of  us  as  we 
passed  by  it,  after  we  had  Purchassed  the  said  Island,  did 
grant  him  our  Right  in  the  said  Island  and  Named  it  Dyres 
Island. .  .October  i8th  1669: 

William  Coddington 
...Richard  Carder  being  a  Purchassers  doe  own  the  above 
writeinge : 


179 

November  2th  1669  by  me  Richard  Carder. 

William  Cooley  aged  66  years.  .  .Testefieth  that  in  the  first 
year  of  the  setling  of  this  Plantation  of  Newport  he  being 
Master  of  a  boat  and  Jeffery  Champlin  and  Richard  Series 
being  of  his  Company,  and  stopping  at  the  Island  Called  Dyres 
Island  mr  William  Dyre  in  Presence  of  them  took  posession 
of  the  said  Dyres  Island. .  .6th  of  December  1669: 

Jtohn  Green  Assistant. 
[268]     William  Dyre  to  William  Dyre. 

.  .  .William  Dyre  of  Newport. .  .Gent.  .  .Do.  .  .Give.  .  .my.  . . 
Sonn  William  Dyre,.  .  .my  Island.  ,  .Called  Dyres  Island  lying 
and  being  scittuated  in  Narrogansett  Bay  upon  the  Northern 
side  of  Rhode-Island  over  against  Prudence  Island. .  .fifth  day 
of  August,  .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred  and  seventie 
Wit.  William  Dyre. 

Daniell  King 
1670 

John         Pertens. 

William  Browning  to  Thomas  Manchester. 
.  .  .William  Browning  of.  .  .Portsmouth.  .  .husbandman.  .  .for 
...a  Bargain  of  Exchange  of  a  percell  of  land  lying.  .  .in 
Punkatest. .  .made  with  Thomas  Manchester  junr.  of... 
Portsmouth  Black  Smith.  .  .Doe.  .  .Grant,.  .  .two  percells  of 
Land  lying. .  .in  the. .  .Township  of  Portsmouth  the  One  par- 
cell  Containing  Twenty  Acres.  .  .bounded  Northward  on  the 
Swamp  or  Comon,  Eastward  upon  the  great  Road  or  hie  way 
goeing  towards  Newport,  Southward  on  land  latly  belonging 
to  William  Cadman,  and  Westward  on  the  land  of  Gidion 
Freeborne  the  other  parcell.  .  .Containing  five  Acres.  .  .be- 
tween me  and  my  sisters  is  butted.  .  .between  the  land  of 
Gidion  Freeborn  where  he  now  dwellith  and  the  land  now .  . . 
in  the  posession  of  Mathew  Greenell . . .  with  all...Medows 
woods  trees  gardens  Orchards,. .  .ninteenth  day  of  March.  . . 
1684-5 
Wit.  William  Browning 

John  Sanford  X 

Mary  Sanford  jur.  his  marke. 


i8o 

.  .  .wee  saw  William  Browning.  . . 
March  one  &  twenty  day  1684-5 
Joseph  Timberlake 
William  Cory. 
William  Browning.  .  .21  of  march  1684-5.  •  -did.  .  .acknowl- 
idge  the  above  written. . . 

John  Albro  Assistant 
[269]     John  Clarke  to  Richard  Tew. 

...27th  day  of  the  12th  Month  1650... John  Clarke  of... 
Newport  Phisician  have... sold  unto  Richard  Tew  of  the 
same  Town  One  Parcell  of  Land  lying  on  the  East  side  of 
my  Farme  neer  the  mill  and  adjoyning  to  the  said  farme  on 
the  west  side  thereof  and  on  the  east  side  to  the  hie  way  that 
leads  to  Sachuet  being  in  length. .  .'j'j  Poles,  and  abutting  on 
the  North  end  thereof  upon  a  parcell  of  Land  by  me.  . . 
granted  unto  James  Rogers,  &  on  the  south  upon  a  way  3  pies 
wide  reserved  to  my  selfe  as  an  Inlet  and  Outlett  properly 
belonging  to  my  selfe. .  .thirteen  Acres  and  a  halfe.  . . 
Wit.  John  Clarke : 

Marke  Lucar 
Samuell  Billing 
X 
his  marke 
. . .  agreed  that  when  Richard  Tew   Chainged  land  with  mr 
Clarke  that  Richard  Tew  was  to  have  16  acres.  .  .for  the  land 
...he  bought  of   Staford  but  they  agreed  to  give  WilHam 
Vaughan  5  acres . . .  between  them  which  was  the  Reason  that 
this  Deed  was  made  but  for  13  acres  an  a  halfe. 

M^rke  Lucar: 
Samuell  X  Billing 
his  marke. 
[270]     William  Vaughan  do  Testefy. 
Newport  Octo.  the  4th  1671. 

...William  Vaughan  do  Testefy,  when  Richard  Tew  did 
Exchaing  the  Land  with  mr  John  Clarke:  the  land  that  the 
said  Richard  bought  of  Thomas  Stafford,. .  .ten  acres  East- 
ward of  the  mill  and  a  percell  of  Marsh  lying  in  the  fresh 


I»I 

Pond  neer  mr  Clarkes  farme.  .  .mr  John  Clarke  did  agree  to 
give  mr.  Richard  Tew  sixteen  acres,  the  East  side  of  his  farme 
betwixt  his  farme  and  the  hie  way,  at  which  time  mr  Tew 
made  the  motion  to  mr  John  Clarke  to  give  William  Vaughan 
two  acres  and  a  halfe  of  his  farme  adjoyning  to  this  sixteen 
acres.  .  .mr  Richard  Tew  agreed.  .  .to  give  William  Vaughan, 
two  acres  and  a  halfe  out  of  mr  Tews  sixteen  Acres  adjoy- 
ing  to  that  the  which  mr  Clarke  accepting  of.  .  .made  mr  Tew 
a  deed  but  of  thirteen  acres  and  a  halfe  leaveing  the  two  acres 
and  a  halfe  out,  I  William  Vaughan  not  accepting  of  it :  when 
mr  Clarke  was  gon  for  England,  I  and  Thomas  Clarke  being 
his  agents ...  layd  it  out  length  ways  betwixt  the  sixteen  and 
mr  Clarkes  farme.  .  .  marke 

Wit.  William  X  Vaughan 

John  Harris  his. 

Frances  Vaughan. 
[271]     John  Warner  to  Thomas  Stafford. 
...John        Warner...  of        Warwick.  .  .Have.  .  .sold.  .  .unto 
Thomas   Stafford    (of   the  Town.  .  .aforesaid) ..  .two   shares 
of  Medow  ground.  .  .within  the  Towship  of  Warwick,  at  or 
neer  the  place  Called  Taskeunke,  the.  . .  shares  did  Origonally 
belong  to  Richard   Townsend   and   Christopher   Haukshurst, 
and  since  Purchassed  by  me  upon  Exchainge  of  Land  with  mr 
Anthony  Low... 28th  of  February  1684-85 
Wit.  John  Warner 

William  Burton 

Benjamin  Gorton 

Samuell  Gorton. 

Thomas  Stafford  to  John  Warner. 
.  . .  Thomas  Stafford ...  of  Warwick .  .  .  have .  .  .  Sold .  .  .  unto 
John  Warner  of  the  same  Town.  .  .my  house  lott  Scittuate.  . . 
in... Warwick  neer  the  dwelling  of  Leiutent.  John  Low 
bounded  on  the  front  by  the  street,  and  parted  with  a  passage 
of  water  or  Brook  from  the  Land  of  John  Low,  and  on  the 
other  side  bounded  with  the  land  of  Joseph  Carder,  and  on 
the  other  bounded  by  a  hie  way  devideing  it  from  the  ox 
pasture,.  .  .with  Orchard  fenceing  building.  .  .as  it  was  given 


1 82 

. .  .unto  me  by  the  will  of  my  deceassed  Father  Thomas  Staf- 
ford senior.  .  .28th  of  February  1684-85. 
Wit.  Thomas  X  Stafford 

William  Burton  his  marke. 

Benjamin  Gorton 

Samuell  Gorton 
[272]  James  Leonard  to  Icabod  Sheffield. 
...James  Leonard  senr  of  Tanton.  .  .for.  .  .twelve  Pounds 
sterling-.  .  .paid  by  Icabod  Sheffield  of  the  Township  of  Ports- 
mouth. .  .hath.  .  .sold,.  .  .Parsell  of  Land.  .  .being  down  Tan- 
ton  great  River  So  Called,  On  the  westerly  side  of  the .  . . 
River.  .  .being  one  full  share  (Excepting  Only  the  litle  Lott 
so  Called).  .  .of  the  Land  which  belongeth  to  the  Inhabitants 
of  Tanton.  .  .was  Purchassed  by  the  Inhabitants  of  Tanton.  . . 
of  Phillip  Sachim  Alias  pumetacombe  and  mr  Constant  South- 
worth  Treasurer  for  the  Collony.  .  .in.  .  .which  Tract...  the 
said  James  Leonard  senr.  hath  a  full  share.  .  .lyeth  southerly 
from  the  Town  of  Tanton  The  lott... was  Called  the  great 
Lott  is  the  second  Lott  lying  Neer  a  Place  Called  broad  Cove 
bounded  by  the  medows  of  Samuell  Hall  senr  on  the  Easterly 
end  and  by  the  Land  of  Increase  Robinson  on  the  southerly 
side.  And  by  the  Land  that  belongith  to  the  Inhabitants  of 
Swansey  on  the  Westerly  End  and  by  the  Land  of  Jonah 
Austin  junr.  On  the  North  side.  Containing.  .  .Thre  score 
Acres.  .  .to  be  holden  as  of .  .  .the  King.  .  .his  manner  of  East 
Greenwich.  .  .James  Leonard  and  Margitt  his.  .  .wife.  .  .six 
and  twenty  day  of  September.  .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred 
Eighty  and  one.  .  .whereas  is  writt  Margit  it  should  been 
writt  Margreet.  .  . 
Wit.  his  marke 

John  Hall  James  X  Leonard 

his  marke  her  marke 

John  X  Leonard  junr.  Margrett  X  Leonard. 

Sharach  Wilbore 

James  Leonard  senr  and  Margreet  his  wife.  . . acknowlidged 
this. .  .24th  October  1681 

Daniell  Smith  Assist. 


i83 

[274]  Thomas  Terry  to  Administrators  of  John  Hulls  Estate. 
...Thomas  Terry  of  Tanton.  .  .for.  .  .sum  of  mony.  .  .paid 
by  Samuell  Seawell  of  Boston. .  .to  the  Estate  of  John  Hull 
Esqr.  deceassed.  .  .Have.  .  .Sold.  .  .unto  the.  .  .Administrators 
all  that  Remainder  of  my  Lott.  .  .of  Land  purchassed  of  mr 
John  Alcock, .  . .  Sixty  Acres ...  in  two  parcells  at  the  North- 
east end  of  Block-Island. .  .bounded.  .  .the  one  percell  to  the 
North-west  by  the  Land  of  Phillip  Wharton,  to  the  southeast 
by  the  Land  of  James  Sands,  to  the  south  west  by  the  Land  of 
Thomas  Mitchell  to  the  Northeast  by  the  Land  of  John  Rath- 
bone,  the  second  Parcell  butted  to  the  Southwest  by  the  Land 
of  John  Rathbone,  to  the  Northeast  by  the  sea  to  the  North- 
west by  the  Land  of  Phillip  Wharton  to  the  southeast  by  the 
Land  of  James  Sands:. .  .five  and  twenith  day  of  January. .  . 
One  Thowsand  Six  hundred  Eighty  and  three.  . . 
Wit.  Thomas  Terry 

George  Shove  her  marke 

Bar.  Tipping  Anna  X  Terry 

mr  Thomas  Terry. .  .with  the  Consent  of  his  wife  Anna. . . 
acknowlidged.  .  .28th  January  1683 

Daniell  Smith  Asist. 
[275]     Jireth  Bull  to  his  brother 

...fifth  day  of  December.  ..  1685.  .  .between  Jireth  Bull  of 
Newport.  .  .Eldist  sonn  of  Jireth  Bull  of  Kings-Town.  .  .de- 
ceassed and  Henry  Bull,  Ephraim  Bull,  and  Ezekell  Bull, 
sonns  of.  .  .deceassed  Jireth  Bull.  .  . 

. .  .  L  .  .  Eldist  brother  to . .  .  Henry,  Ephraim  Bull  and  Ezekiel 
Bull,  Doe...  make  over  all  my  Right. .  .unto  my  deceassed 
Fathers  lands  or  houseing.  .  .the  housing  and  lands  whereon 
he  lived  Containing  Ninty  two  Acres... and  five  hundred 
Acres  of  Land .  . .  lying  westward  from  the  afore-said  house- 
ing and  Land  about  two  miles,.  .  .Caled  Jireth  Bulls  Farme.  .  . 
I  do  hereby  bind  my  selfe.  .  .in  the  full.  .  .sum  of  One  Thow- 
sand Pounds  sterling  Unto  my...  three  Brothers ...  Provided 
that  I.  .  .In joy  my  Grand  Fathers,  Henry  Bull  farme  after  his 
decease  adjoyning  to  my  farme  in  Newport,  but  if  I... shall 
not  in  joy  the  said  Farme.  .  .Then.  .  .1  with  my.  .  .Brothers,.  . . 


i84 

are  Equally  to  devide. .  .the  Lands  of  our  deceassed  father. . . 
Wit.  Jireh  Bull 

Rog-er  Goulding 

Weston  Clarke. 
[276]  Edward  Robyson  to  Margrett  Hall. 
. . .  Edward  Robyson ...  of  Newport . . ,  Husbandman . . .  Mar- 
g^rett  Hall  the  wife  of  James  Hall  in  the  said  Island.  .  .Have 
given.  .  .the  said  Margrett,.  .  .  (  .  .  .after  my  decease)  all  my 
houses  and  Lands.  .  .within.  .  .the.  .  .said  Town.  .  .on  Con- 
sideration, that.  .  .Margrett  shall.  .  .bring  up.  .  .Edward  Roby- 
son and  Francis  Robyson  my  two  sons... And  after  the  de- 
cease of.  .  .Margrett  L  .  .do.  .  .give.  .  .to  my  sons.  .  .all.  .  .the 
afore-mentioned  houses  and  Lands.  .  .Equaly  to  be  devided.  . . 
I  do .  .  .  give .  . .  Margrett ...  all  my .  . .  household  stuff  Redy 
mony  Leasses  Chattells.  .  .at  her  decease  to  be  my. .  .sonns. . . 
tenth  day  of  December.  .  .  1684.  his 

Wit.  Edward  X  Robyson. 

Edward  Greenman  marke. 

Elias  Williams 
...if  either  of   my.  .  .sons.  .  .shall  decease.  .  .then  that  part 
of  my  houses  and  Lands.  .  .shall  be  the.  .  .Right.  .  .of  the  sur- 
vivor. .  .Eighteen  day  of  December.  .  .one  Thowsand  six  hun- 
dred Eighty  five. 
Wit.  Edward  X  Robyson 

John  Sanford  his  marke 

Stephen  Brayton 
[277]  David  and  Edward  Greenman  to  John  Green. 
...twentith  day  of  February.  .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred 
forty  and  seven .  .  .  David  Greenman  and  Edward  Green- 
man of  Newport.  .  .Wheel writes.  .  .for.  .  .mony.  .  .have.  . . 
sold  unto  John  Green  of  Newport. .  .Husbandman,  one  per- 
cell  of  Land.  .  .being  within  or  neer  the  endship  or  village 
Called  Greenend,  and  there  adjoyneth  on  the  hie  way  leading 
from  Newport  unto  Portsmouth  on  the  south  west  side  thereof 
And  abutting  at  the  West  end  of  it  over  the  mill  brook 
(ackording  to  the  markes  thereof)  upon  the  Comon,  and 
adjoyning  to  the  Lands  of  David  and  Edward  Greenman  on 


i85 

the  North  side  of  it  Contayning. .  .Two  and  twenty  Acres. . . 
Wit.  David  Greenman 

Jeremy  Gould  Edward  Greenman 

Will.  Jefferay. 

Henry  Bassett. 
Newport.  .  .Edward  Greenman  acknowlidged  4th  day  of  Feb- 
ruary 1681-2  Peleg  Sanford  Governor. 
[278]     Joshua  Coggeshall  to  Walter  Cunagrave. 
,  .  .30th  day  of  May.  .  .One  Thousand  six  hundred  and  fifty 
One.  .  .Joshua    Coggeshall    of    Newport.  .  .the    son    of    John 
Coggeshall  the  deceassed  have .  . .  sold  unto  Walter  Cunagrave 
of  the  same  Town  a  Parcell  of  Land  lying  within  the  Pre- 
cincts thereof  and  upon  the  East  side  of  the  River  upon  which 
Newport  mill  now  standeth,  and  not  farr  from  the  said  mill 
. .  .Eight  score  Acres  of  Land  be  it  more  or  less  adjoyning 
unto  the  Land  of  Richard  Knight  on  the  south  side,  and  on 
the  North  unto  the  Land  granted  by  the  Town  to  Mary  Clarke 
some  times  the  wife  of  John  Peckham.     And  abutting  upon 
the  great  Comon  On  the  East  end  thereof,  And  on  the  West 
upon  the  hie   way  that   leads   from  the   Mill   to  green  end. 
Village  : .  . . 
Wit :  Joshua  Coggeshall. 

John  Clarke. 

Elizabeth  Clarke. 
. .  .Mary  Coggeshall  the  mother  of  Joshua. .  .Consenting  unto 
the  sale...  30th  of  May  165 1  : 

Mary  Coggeshall. 
[279]  Walter  Cunygrave  to  John  Green. 
...sixt  day  of  June... one  thousand  six  hundred  fifty  and 
one... Walter  Cunygrave  of  Newport  Merchant  Tayler,  and 
Elisabeth  Cunygrave  his  wife  have  sold  unto  John  Green  of 
Newport.  .  .yeoman  four  score  Acres  of  Land...  in  Newport 
.  .  .neer  unto  or  in  the  hamlett  of  Greenend  and  adjoyning  on 
the  North  Side  of .  . .  Walter  Cunygraves  other  land  and 
towards  the  North  on  the  land  granted  by  the  Town  of  New- 
port unto  Mary  Clarke  now  deceassed  some  time  the  wife  of 
John  Peckham,  and  abutteth  on  the  Comon  hie  way  leading 


1 86 

from  Greenend   unto  Newport  mill  towards  the  West,  and 

towards  the  east  on  the  great  Comon,.  . , 

Wit.  Walter  X  Cunygrave 

Will.  Jefferay 

Jer.  Gould. 
[290]  John  Walley  to  William  Brenton. 
...William  Brenton  late  of  Newport.  .  .Now  of  Bristol!... 
Marriner  did  By. .  .Deed  23d  January  1679  Make  Over. .  .to 
John  Walley  late  of  Boston  Now  of  Bristoll  Merchant... a 
Certain  Farme  and  houseing.  .  .in  the  Township  of  Newport 
.  .  .and  then  in  Posession  of  Richard  Allison  for  Certain  uses 
.  .  .Now.  .  .Wim  Brenton  seemed.  .  .unsatisfied  with  what  he 
had  done,  And.  .  .Refussed  to  give  Posession  of  the  Same.  . . 
I .  .  .  Walley  Could  not  be  in  any  Capassety  to  Act .  . .  without 
a  sute  at  law.  .  .Considering  his  Necessety  Called  for  such 
supply  as  Could  not  be  procured  without  disposing  of  a  Con- 
siderable part  of  the  farme,  And... by  selling  the  whole 
farme  he  might  Satisfy  his  debts,  putt  himselfe  in  some  way 
of  Lively  hood  and  secure  something  Considerable  for  his 
Children  after  him  in  some  other  Estate  more  suteable,  Alsoe 
his  wife  desireing  and  Consenting  to  the  same.  .. I.  .  .John 
Walley  Do  by  these  Presence  Renounce  the  said  Trust  that 
by  the  above-mentioned  Instrument  was  made  or  Committed 
to  me,  And  as  I  never  have  Acted  or  done  any  thing  in  the 
Premisses  by  Vertue  thereof  So  I  doe  for  my  selfe  my  heires 
...forever  Renounce  and  Refuse  said  Trust.  .  .And  that  it 
may  be  lawfull  for  said  Brenton  Notwithstanding  said  Instru- 
ment to  sell ...  or  dispose  the  Same  as  may  be  most  for  his 
benefitt.  .  .fourteenth  day  of  Septembr.  One  Thousand  six 
hundred  Eighty  and  five. 
Wit.  John  Walley. 

Watching  Atherton 

Richard  Smith 

John  Walley.  .  .  15th  of  Aprill.  .  . acknowlidged  this. . . 

Caleb  Carr  Assistant 

Peleg  Sanf  ord  to  William  Brenton. 
...Peleg  Sanford  of   Newport.  .  .for.  .  .two  hundred   &  six 


1 87 

Pounds  and  six  shillings  Currant  Silver  mony  of  New  England 
.  .  .paid.  .  .By  William  Brenton  of  Bristoll.  .  .Have  Given.  . . 
A  Certain  Parcell  of  Land.  .  .within.  .  .Newport.  .  .Seventy 
and  two  Acres.  .  .butted.  .  .North.  .  .by  Land  of  John  Easton 
senr.  &  land  of  Walter  Clarke  &  the  Comon  West  by  land 
formerly  belonging  to  Thomas  Clifton,  deceassed,  Southerly 
by  Land  of.  .  .William  Brenton  and  Henry  Bull  Esqr.  with  all 
. .  .trees. .  .wayes,. .  .twenty  fourth  day  of  October. .  .One 
Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  &  five. 
Wit.  Peleg  Sanford. 

Archebell  Forest  Mary  Sanford 

Ralph  X  Earll  junr 
his  marke: 

Peleg  Sanford  and  Mary  his  wife.  ..did  Acknowlidge  this 
...Newport  15th  day  February  1685-6 

John  Easton  Assistant 
[292]  William  Brenton  to  John  Walley. 
.  .  .William  Brenton  of  Bristall  alias,  Mount  hope.  .  .Marriner 
and  Hannah  his  wife.  .  .for.  .  .six  hundred  and  twenty 
Pounds  of  Currant  mony  of  New  Engand.  .  .by  John  Walley 
of  Bristoll.  .  .Merchant.  .  .Paid.  .  .have  Given...  a  Certain 
farme.  .  .being  in  the  Township  of  Newport.  .  .Comonly 
called.  .  .Brace's  farme.  .  .about  two  hundred  and  forty  Acres 
.  .  .now  in  the  Posession  of  Richard  Allisson,  being  the  whole 
of  the  said  Farme  houseing  buildings  and  Lands  whether  up- 
lands Medows  and  Swamps.  .  .which  was  Willed  to  William 
Brenton  by  his  Father  William  Brenton  Esqr.  deceassed, 
which  farme...  is  butted ...  Westerly  by  the  Land  of  Henry 
Bull  Esqr.  and  Irah  Bull  Southerly  by  the  Land  of  Major 
John  Coggeshall.  Easterly  by  the  Sea  Northerly  by  the  Land 
of  John  Easton  senr.  and  Partly  by  the  Comon, .  .  .  Eighteenth 
day  of  November.  .  .One  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  & 
five. . . 
Wit.  William  Brenton 

Will.  Hedge :  Hannah  Brenton 

Richard  Smith. 


i88 

William  Brenton  and  Hannah  his  wife  15th  of  Aprill  1686 
Acknowlidged .  . . 

Caleb  Carr  Asistant 
[293]  John  Walley  to  William  Stoughton — (mortgage) 
...John  Walley  of  Bristoll.  .  .Merchant,  and  Sarah  his  wife 
..  .for.  .  .Five  hundred  Pounds  Currant  mony  of  New- 
England.  .  .paid.  ,  .by  William  Stoughton  of  Dorchester  in  the 
Colony  of  the  Massathusetts  Esqr.  .  .Have  Given.  .  .A  Certain 
Farme  lying  and  being  in  the  Township  of  Newport,  .  .Caled 
...Braces  Farme... Two  hundred  and  forty  Acres — now  in 
the  Posession  of  Richard  Allisson  being  the  whole  of  the  sd 
farme  houseing  buildings  and  Lands  whether  upland?  or 
medows  and  swamps.  .  .which  was  willed  to  William  Bren- 
ton by  his  Father  Wim  Brenton  Esqr.  deceassed  which  farme 
.  .  .is  butted.  .  .Westerly  by  the  Land  of  Henry  Bull  Esqr.  & 
Irah  Bull  Southerly  by  Land  of  Majo  John  Coggeshall,  East- 
wardly  by  the  sea,  Northerly  by  the  land  of  John  Easton  senr 
partly  by  the  Comon.  .  .if .  .  .John  Walley.  .  .shall.  .  .pay.  .  . 
unto  Wim  Stoughton. .  .the. .  .sum  of  five  hundred  &  Thirty 
five  pounds  of  Present  mony  of  New  England.  .  .before  the 
first  day  of  March.  .  .One  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  six 
seven.  .  .then  this.  .  .Deed.  .  .shall  be.  .  .voyd.  .  .fiveteenth  day 
of  February.  .  .One  Thousand  six  hundred  &  Eighty  five.  .  . 
Wit.  John  Walley 

Nathal.  Byfield  Sarah  Walley. 

Thomas  Walley: 

John  Walley  and  Sarah  his  wife.  .  .15th  of  Aprill  1686.  . . 
Acknowlidged . .  . 

Caleb  Carr  Assistant 
[295]     Wamsetta  to  Peter  Talman. 

. .  .Wamsetta  alias  Sepaquit  or  by  his  English  Name  Alexan- 
der, the  greatist  and  Chief  est  Prince  or  Sachim  hereabout.  .  . 
freely  Give  unto  my  well  beloved  Friend  Peter  Talman  of 
Portsmouth.  .  .a  Parcell  of  Land,.  .  .bounded. .  .At  the  North- 
ermost  end  with  a  River  Comonly  Called  the  Seven  Mile 
River,  and  from  the  said  River  upon  a  streight  line  Eastward 
till  it  meet  with  the  bounds  of  Cocksett.,  and  then  it  is  to  Run 


i89 

upon  a  streight  line  Southward  till  it  come  to  the  main  sea, 
And  then  to  run  by  the  sea  Westward  to  Saconett,  and  from 
Saconett  up  the  Eastward  side  of  the  great  River  till  the  line 
meets  at  the  Seven  mile  River  again ;  with  all .  . .  Land, 
Medows,  hearbidge,  timber,  under-woods.  Creeks  Coves  or 
Islands  fresh  Rivers  or  Springs .  . .  Only  the  Purchass  which 
Captn  Richard  Morris  bought  is  Excepted  in  this  deed... 
And  Punckatest  Neck ...  formerly  bought  by  some  men  of 
Plymouth ...  Twenty  day  of  January.  .  .One  Thowsand  six 
hundred  Sixty  and  one, .  .  . 
Wit.  The  marke  of  Alexander. 

Richard  Bulgar  Or  Wamsitta  Else.  X 

The  marke  of  Edward  Lay  X .  .  Sepawquit 

John  Sasoman  the  Interpreter  Indian 

Thomas  Durfi 
[296]  Testemony  of  Richard  Bulgar  and  others. 
Richard  Bulgar  Aged  Seventy  years .  . .  and  Thomas  Durfi 
aged  about  thirty  six  years  all  of ..  .Portsmouth. .  .doe  Tes- 
tefy  that  the. .  .Indian  Sachim  Caled  Wamsetta  Sepawquit  or 
Alexander  at  the  time  of  signeing. .  .was  in  a  very  Sober  Con- 
dition and  not  any  way  Over-come  in  or  by  drink, ...  it  was 
his  Free. .  .Act. .  .the  said  Subscriber  was  the  Eldist  Brother 
of  Sachim  Phillip  (who  first  began  the  late  Indian  warr  with 
the  English.)  and  was  the  Chief  Sachim  of  these  Parts  & 
deceassed  before  the  warr : 

Edward  Lay  of .  . .  Portsmouth  aged  about  seventy  one  years 
. .  .doth  Testefie  to  the  Truth  of  all  that  is  above. .  .i6th  of 
August.  .  .1679  Before  me 

John  San  ford  Assistant. 

William  Brenton  to  Thomas  Ward. 
.  .  .William  Brenton  of  Bristoll. .  .Marriner. . . for. .  .Thirty 
Pounds  Currant  Silver  mony  of  New-England.  .  .Paid. .  .by 
Thomas  Ward  of  Newport. .  .Have  Granted ...  one  seventh 
part... of  all... the  devided  lands  in  Pettacomscutt  formerly 
belonging  to  my  father  William  Brenton  deceassed,  And  the 
forty  ninth  part  of  all.  .  .the  Lands  both  upland  and  Medows 
now  lying  and  being  undevided  within  the  said  tract  of  Lands 


Comonly  Called  Pettacomscutt  in.  .  .Rhode-Island.  .  .bounded 
by  the  sea  from  Point  Judith  to  Pettacomscutt  River,  and  so 
to  the  head  of  the  Pond  Called  Pausakaonkanuck  which  Pond 
lyeth  about  Northwest  from  the  Mill,  And  from  the  Pond  on 
a  Norwest  line  six  miles  Also  on  a  west  line  drawn  from  the 
head  of  the  Cove  North  of  Point  Judith  Neck  six  miles  and  a 
halfe  and  soe  on  a  strait  line  from  the  head  of  the  aforesaid 
northwest  line  unto  the  head  of  the  said  west  line  of  six  miles 
and  a  halfe  thence  on  the  same  straite  Line  to  the  sea  or 
South  Shore,  and  on  the  South  by  the  sea,  which  said  forty 
Ninth  Part  Containeth. .  .about  seven  hundred  Acres...  with 
all... woods  water  ways... if  I... my  heires  or  assignes... 
shall . . .  Molest . . .  Thomas  Ward ...  it  shall ...  be  lawf  ull .  . . 
for  the  said  Thomas. .  .to. .  .take  into  his. .  .Posession  two 
Certain  Peeces. .  .of  Lands. .  .in  the  Township  of  BristoU.  . . 
one  of  which ...  is ...  in  a  Certain  Place  Called  Papasquash 
neck  Containing  Twenty  three  Acres,  And  bounded  East  and 
west  by  the  salt  water  North  by  Stephen  Burtons  land  South 
upon  the  Lands  Caled  Timothy  Clarkes  the  other . . .  Land 
Contains  tenn  Acres  and  bounded  North  by  the  hie-way.  South 
by  the  Land  of  Christopher  Sanders  Easterly  by  the  land  of 
Nathaniell  Hayman  and  Westerly  upon  the  house  Lotts  And 
were  both  Purchassed  by  me. .  .of  John  Walley  of  Bristoll. .  . 
until  the  said  William  Brenton.  .  .shall.  .  .Pay.  .  .Thomas 
Ward... the  said  sum  of  Thirty  Pounds. .  .with  lawfull 
Intrest  and  the  Charge  in  Mannageing  the  said  Lands.,  .fift 
day  of  May.  .  .One  Thousand  Six  hundred  Eighty  and  six. 
Wit.  Wim  Brenton. 

William  Hiscox 

Gilbert  Magick 

William    Brenton    Acknowlidged    above... May    5th    1686 
Before  Walter  Clarke  Det  Govr. 

Hanah  Brenton  the  wife  of.  .  .WilHam  Brenton  did.  .  .con- 
sent to  the. .  .Sale.  .  .May  Sth  1686 

Walter  Clarke  Dept.  Go. 
[298]     Nathanaell  Coddington  to  Noell  Mew. 
. .  .Nathanael  Coddington  of  Newport. .  .Merchat.  and  Susan- 


191 

nah  his  wife.  .  .for.  .  .four  hundred  Pounds  Currant  Silver 
mony  of  New  England. .  .Paid. .  .by  Noell  Mew  of  Newport 
..  .Merchant. .  .Have  Granted...  a  certain  Parcell  of  Land 
Called  Rocky  Farme  lying.  .  .in  the  Precincts  off  Newport.  . . 
Containing. .  .three  hundred  Acres. .  .bounded. .  .Southerly 
by  the  Sea  Easterly  by  the  Cove  and  Marshes  of  John  Cogges- 
hall  Northerly  Partly  by  John  Coggeshalls  land  and  Partly  the 
Comon  Runing  on  a  line  till  it  comes  to  a  small  Cove,  and 
from  thence  Westerly  bounded  by  the  Comon  Called  Cherry 
Neck,  and  so  Runs  to  the  Sea...  with  all. .  .houses  Gardens 
Orchards  woods. .  .Ponds  Creeks  Coves. .  .Thirteenth  day  of 
Aprill. .  .One  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  and  Six,. . . 
Wit.  Nathall.  Coddington 

William  Allen  Susannah  Coddington 

Tho.  Rodman 

Newport  Aprill  13th  1686  Nathll  and  Susannah  Coddington 

declared. . . 

Walter  Clarke  Dep  Govr. 
[299]     Tacommonan  to  Randall  Howldon  &  Ezechill  Holly- 
man 

. . .  Tacommonan  Right  owner  of  all  the  medows  and  Mowable 
land  upon  a  Neck  of  ground  Comonly  Called  by  the  English 
.  . .  Petawhomett  neck  Scittuate  and  being  upon  the  great 
River  Called .  . .  Nanhygansett  bay  lying  over  against  the  South 
end  of  that  neck. .  .Called  Shawomett,  which  Bay  is  the  east 
bounder,  and  that  River  Comonly  Called  by  the  English  Poto- 
womett  River  being  the  Southw  [torn]  bounder,  and  Coeassett 
Bay  being  the  Northward  bounder  for  the  space  or  length  of 
four  miles  according  to  the  English  Account  up  by  the  Said 
Potowomett  River  westward  from  the .  . .  Nanhigansett  Bay, 
which  Percell  of  Land  as  above-said  with  all  the  Rights.  .  .by 
water  land  wood.  .  .L  .  .have.  .  .sold.  .  .unto  Randall  Howldon 
and  Ezechill  Hollyman  both  of  Warwick. .  .for  the  Just  sum 
or  fifteen  Pounds... in  wampum  Peag  Only  I  am  to  Recive 
the  Valine  of  one  Coat  of  such  Cloth  as  the  Indians  do  now 
Comonly  use  to  wear  Annually  as  a  gratuety  here  after.  .  . 
-according  to  the  Custom  of  the  English  dated  the  thirteenth 


192 

day  of  July.  ..  1654 • 

Wit.  Tocommonon  X  his  marke. 

Jeremiah  Westcott.  Awassuocitt  X  his  marke 

William  Baker  Eldist  son  to  him 

Samuell  Edsall.  above  Wawnunockshaw  X  his 

marke  an  other  Son. 
[300]     John  Allis  to  Henry  Neales. 

.  . .  WilHam  Allis  some  times  of  Brantree  in  the  Massathusetts 
Colony.  .  .deceassed  did  formerly  grant  unto  Henry  Neale 
senr.  of  said  Town  three  quarters  of  One  Sixteenth  part  of 
. . .  Block-Island  now  under  the  Government  of  Rhode-Island 
Excepting  and  Reserveing  the  Island  Called  foart  Island  and 
five  and  twenty  Acres  more  to  be  taken  out  of  the  said  three 
quarters  of  said  sixteenth  part.  Butt... as  no  deed  for  Con- 
firmation of  the  said  Land  Passed  frorn  William  Allis  I  John 
Allis  the  heir. .  .of  William  Allis. .  .Do. .  .Release. .  .unto. . . 
Henry  Neales. .  .the  said  three  quarters  of  one  Sixtenth  part 
of  Block-Island. .  .Excepting. .  .foart  Island  and  twenty  five 
Acres  to  be  taken  out  of  the  said  three  quarters  of  one  six- 
teenth part  neer  the  harbour  according  to  mr  Alcocks  Re- 
serve in  his  Release  of  said  land,.  .  .24th  of  June  1685: 
Wit.  John  Allis 

Arthur  Mason 
John  Williams 
John  Allis  acknowlidged  this. .  .24th  June  1686 

Bradstreet  Governor 
[301]     Phillip  Jones  to  Rebecca  Tailer  &  John  Nelson  (Mort- 
gage). 

. .  .fifteenth  day  of  June. .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty 
&  three. .  .Between  Phillip  Jones  of  New  Yorke  merchant  on 
the  one  Part,  and  Rebeckah  Tailer  Relict,  Widow,  of  William 
Tailer  late  of  Boston . . .  Merchant  deceassed,  And  John  Nelson 
of  Boston.  .  .Merchant,  Administratrix  and  Administrator,  to 
the  Estate  of... William  Tailer  deed,  on  the  other  Part,... 
Phillip  Jones  for. .  .two  hundred  Pounds  of  Currant  mony  of 
New-England. .  .by. .  .Rebecca  Tailer  and  John  Nelson... 
paid. .  .Hath. .  .sold,. .  .all  that  his  Messuage  or  Tenement. . . 


193 

in  the  Town  of  Newport.  .  .with  all  the  land  belonging  to  the 
same  (excepting  the  buriall  place  of  John  Gard  and  his  wife) 
being  upwards  of  Three  quarters  of  an  Acre  of  Land... 
bounded  on  the  South  by  the  land  late  in  the  Possession  of 
William  Brenton  mercht  deed,  and  bounded  on  the  North  by 
Lands ...  of  Capt  Peleg  Sanf  ord  abutting  upon  the  East  on 
the  hie-way  that  Extends  North  and  South  in  the  said  Town, 
And  so  the  sd  Land  Extendith  Twelve  foot  in  bredth  down 
into  the  sea  &c. .  .with  all. .  .houses  Outhouses. .  .buildings. . . 
if... Philip  Jones  his  heires.  .  .shall.  .  .pay.  .  .Rebecca  Tailer 
and  John  Nelson. .  .the  sum  of  two  hundred  and  four  pounds 
of  Currant  mony  of  New-England. .  .one  hundred  pounds. . . 
before  the  first  day  of  Septembr. .  .And  the  sum  of  One  hun- 
dred and  four  Pounds  more.  .  .before  the  first  day  of  March 
next  insueing. .  .then  this  present.  .  .Indenture. .  .shall. .  .be 
voyd . . . 

Wit.  Phillip  Jones. 

John  Hayward  Not.  Pub.       Boston. .  .Octob  i6th  1685 
Eliezer  Moody :  ...  Bradstreet  Governor. 

Sam  Sewall  Assistant. 
[302]     Rebecca  Tailer  &  John  Nelson  to  Mary  Jones. 
...Rebecca  Tailer  Relict  widow  of  William  Taylor  late  of 

Boston. .  .Merct.  and  John  Nelson  of   Boston. .  .Mercht 

whereas  Phillip  Jones  late  of  New  Yorke  Mercht.  deed,  by 
an  Indenture  of  Morgage. .  .bearing  date  the  fifteenth  day  of 
June. .  .One  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  and  three  the  sum 
of  two  hundred  Pounds  mony  to  him... paid  by  the  sd  Re- 
becca Tailer  and  John  Nelson  did  give. .  .unto  them. .  .all  his 
Messuage  or  Tenement  Scittuate. .  .in  the  Town  of  Newport 
. .  .with  the  land  belonging  to  the  same  (Excepting  the  buriing 
place  of  John  Gard  and  his  wife)  beinge  upwards  of  three 
quarters  of  an  Acre  of  Land. .  .bounded  on  the  south  by  the 
land  late. .  .of  Peleg  Sanf  ord,  and  on  the  west  by  the  hie  way 
. . .  Extends  North  and  South  in  the  said  Town,  And  so  the 
said  land  Extendeth  twelve  foot  in  bredth  down  into  the  sea 
...with  all...  houses  Outhouses ...  a  Provission. .  .contained 
for  the  Redemption  of  the  Premises  upon  the  payment  of  the 


194 

sum  of  Two  hundred  and  four  Pounds  of  Currant  mony  of 
New-England . . .  And  yett  a  Considerable  part . . .  remaineth 
unpaid. .  .whereof. .  .the  same  became  forfitted  unto  Rebecca 
Tailer  and  John  Nelson,... be  it... known  That  the  sd  Re- 
becca Tailer  and  John  Nelson  for.,.  .Sixty  two  pounds  Cur- 
rant mony  of  New  England ...  paid  by  Mary  Jones  Relict 
widow  of  the  sd  Phillip  Jones,. .  .have  Given...  the  afore-sd 
Messuage  or  tenement  with  all  the  Land  belonging . .  .  bounded 
as  afore-sd. .  .Twenty  ninth  day  of  October. .  .One  Thousand 
six  hundred  Eig'hty  &  five. . . 
Wit.  Rebekah  Tailer — 

Edw.  Perry  ju.  J  Nelson 

Zacheriah  Shute. 
[304]  Daniell  Wilcocks  to  Jacob  Mott. 
. .  .  Daniell  Wilcocks  of  Namquck  neer  Punckatest  Neck . .  . 
for.,  .thirty  Pounds  Sterling  Currant  mony  of  New  England 
. .  .by  Jacob  Mott  of  Portsmouth. .  .Planter. .  .paid;. .  .Have 
sold. .  .one  Compleat. .  .halfe  of  a  Share. .  .or  Sixteenth  part 
of  all  that  tract  of  land  at  Pocassett  and  places  Adjacent 
bounded . . .  Northward  and  Westward  by  the  f  reemens  Lotts 
neer  the  fall  River  and  westward  by  the  Bay  or  Sound  that 
Runneth  between  the  said  Land  and  Rhode  Island  Southward 
partly  by  a  line  that  is  sett  at  a  great  Rock  on  which  is  a  seader 
bush  marked  Neer  the  way  that  leadith  to  punckatest  East- 
ward neer  to  a  pond  at  Dartmouth  Town  bounds  and  west- 
ward to  Suppowett  Creeks  mouth,  And  Northward  up  into 
the  woods  to  Midleburough  Town  bounds  and  Quitquissett 
pond  (always  Excepting  out  of  this  Bargain ...  Sapowett 
Neck  of  Land  and  Medow  thereunto  belonging,  and  the  land 
formerly  granted  by  the  Court  of  Plymouth  to  Captn  Richard 
Morris,  and  soe  much  of  the  land  as  shall  be  allotted  and  ap- 
pointed for  the  use  of  the  ministry) ..  .which. .  .Land  L.. 
with. .  .others  lately  purchassed  of  severall  Gentlemen  Agents 
of  the  Colony  of  New  Plymouth,  as  may  appear  by  one  Deed 
.  .  .bearing  date  March  5th.  1679-80.  .  .Thirteeth  day  of  Janu- 
ary.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  &  Eighty  two. 


195 

Wit.  Daniell  X  Wilcocks 

Caleb  Arnold  his  marke 

George  Brownell 
Zurill  X  Hall 
his  marke. 
Daniell  Wilcocks ...  did ...  acknowlidge  this...  26  of  Septem- 
ber 1684 

John  Albro  Assistant 
[305]     William  Wodell  to  Jacob  Mott. 

...William  Wodell  jun.  of  Portsmouth. .  .for. .  .Ninty 
pounds  in  Mony. .  .paid. .  .by  Jacob  Mott  of  Portsmouth... 
have. .  .Sold,. .  .one  full  third  Part  of  a  Share  of  Land  in  the 
Township  of  Dartmouth ...  as  the  said  Township  in  the  whole 
of  it  containeth. .  .Thirty  five  shares  of  Land. .  .devided  and 
in  part  undevided,  that  part  of  a  share  alredy  devided  which 
belongeth  to  the  said  third  part  of  a  share  hereby  sold ...  is 
that  Tract  of  Land  which  was  the  late  Dwelling  place  of 
John  Cornell  of  sd  Dartmouth  and  is  at  or  neer  the  place 
Called  Coaxett  in . . .  Dartmouth  and  Consisteth  of  upland 
marsh  and  Medowland  all  which  said  devided  part  belonging 
unto  the  said  third  part  of  a  share  of  Land  as  also  the  unde- 
vided part  of  the  said  third  part  of  a  share  as ...  is  sold  unto 
...Jacob  Mott. ..  (Excepting. .  .Only  one  Acre  and  a  halfe 
...  of  medowland  which  lyeth  on  the  south  side  of  the  Creek 
Called  Chuestkeest  Creek  and  is  in  the  Posession  of  Peleg 
Tripp) ..  .Twenty  Eight  day  of  November ...  one  Thousand 
six  hundred  Eighty  four — : 

Wit.  William  Wodell  junio 

Thomas  Eaton  Ruth  Wodell — 

William  Wodell 
John  Anthony. 

. .  .3rd  day  of  December. . .  1684. . . 
William  Wodell  did. .  .give. .  .unto 
. .  .Jacob  Mott. .  .the  lands. .  . 

Peleg  Slocum. 
John  Anthony 
William  Wodell   and   Ruth   Wodell   his   wife. .  .acknowlidge 
this. .  .Deed.  . .  10  of  March  1684-5  Before  me 

John  Albro  Assistant 


196 

[306]     John  Hoskins  to  John  Borden. 

...John  Hoskins  of  Tanton.  .  .for.  .  .Eight  pounds  &  tenn 
shillings  of  Currant  mony  of  New-England ...  paid  by  John 
Borden  of  Portsmouth. .  .hath. .  .sold. .  .a  Certain  Tract  of 
land  Comonly. .  .Called. .  .the  South  Purchass  lying  southerly 
from  Tanton  three  mile  river  and  Scittuated  in  the  Town- 
ship of  Tanton. .  .the  said  Lott  great  being  the  fifty  six  lott 
as  by  the  Records  of ..  .Tanton. .  .more  plainly  appear... 
Scittuated  neer  to  Rocky-Nook  bounded  on  the  North  by  the 
land  formerly  in  the  posession  of  Samuell  Smeth,  and  south- 
erly by  the  land  of  Jarat  Talbut  Easterly  by  the  great  river 
and  westerly  on  the  Comon  or  undevided  lands  of  the  afore- 
said land  the  said  lott  being  sixteen  pole  or  pearch  wide... 
Extending  it  selfe  West  and  by  north  two  miles. .  .Containing 
seventy  Acres .  . .  with  a  small  lott  Called  the  small  lotts  devis- 
sion  On  the  south  side  of  the  three  mile  river  afore-said  with 
an  Equall  Intrest  in  all  the  undevided  Land  belonging  to  the 
. .  .Tract  of  Land.  .  .thirteen  day  of  January.  . .  1680 
Wit.  John  Hoskins 

John  Richmond 

John  Macumber  senr. 

Henry  Hodges. 

John  Hoskins  acknowlidged  this.  .  .2d  of  June  1684 

Daniell  Smith  Assistant 
[307]  Mallachy  Holloway  to  John  Borden. 
...Mallachy  Holloway  of  Tanton. .  .for. .  .Eight  Pounds  of 
Currant  mony  of  New  England.  .  .paid  by  John  Borden  of 
Portsmouth. .  .doth. .  .sell. .  .a  Certain  tract  of  Land. .  .Called 
. .  .the  South  Purchass  lying  southerly  from  Tanton  three 
miles  River  and...  in  the  Township  of  Tanton.  .  .The  great 
Lott  being  the  Twenty  ninth  Lott  lying  at  or  Neer  a  Cove 
Called  Muddy  Cove  bounded  on  the  south  by  the  land  of 
Thomas  Lenkon  and  of  the  North  side  by  the  Lands  of  Henry 
Hodges  and  the  east  end  bounding  of  the  said  Cove  and  main 
River  and  the  Wester  end  on  the  Comon  or  undevided  land 
of  the  fore-sd  tract  the  sd  lott  being  sixteen  Poles  or  pearch 
wide. .  .Extending  it  selfe  for  length  two  miles  westward  by 


197 

north .  . .  Containing  seventy  Acres .  . .  with  a  small  Lott  Called 
the  small  Lotts  of  the  south  side  of  the  thre  mile  river.  . . 
with  an  Equall  intrest  in  all  the  undevided  lands  belonging  to 
.  .  .Purchass  of  land.  .  .fourteen  day  of  January.  .  .1680. 
Wit.  Mallachy  Holloway. 

John  Richmond. 

John  Macumber  senr. 

The  marke  X  of  William  Paull. 

.  . .  Acknowlidged    by    Mallachy 
Holloway.  .  .first  day  of 
November  1681. 

Daniell  Smith  Assistant 
[308]     Henry  Hodges  to  John  Borden. 

.  .  .Henry  Hodges  of  Tanton.  .  .for.  .  .Eight  Pounds  in  Cur- 
rant mony  of  New  England.  .  .Paid.  .  .by  John  Borden  of 
Portsmouth ...  Henry  Hodges  with  the  free  Consent  of 
Heaster  his  wife  have.  .  .sold,.  .  .Lott  of  Land  lying...  in 
Tantons  Purchass  Called  the  South  Purchass  being  Southerly 
from  Tanton  three  mile  River.  .  .being  the  thirty  lott  as  by 
the  Records  of  the  sd  Town.  .  .more  plainly  appear,  bounded 
on  the  South  side  by  the  lands  of  the  sd  John  Borden  and  on 
the  North  by  the  land  that  was  in  the  Posession  of  James 
Burt,  the  easter  end  on  Tanton  great  river  and  the  west  end 
on  the  Comon  or  undevided  lands  of  the  said  purchass,  being 
sixteen  Rods  or  Pearch  wide.  .  .Extending  its  length  two  miles 
westward  by  North.  .  .being  seventy  Acres...  with  an  equal 
Intrest  in  all  the  undevided  lands  belonging  to  the  sd  Pur- 
chass,. . .  fourteen  day  of  January. .  .  1680-81 
Wit.  Henry  Hodges. 

John  Macumber  senr.      The  marke  X  of  Easter  Hodges. 

William  X  Paule 
his  marke. 

John  Richmond. 
...acknowlidged   by   Henry   Hodges... and   his   wife   Easter 
Hodges  first  of  November  1681 

Daniell  Smith  Assistant 


198 

[309]  Samuel  Chandler  to  William  Earle. 
.  .  .Samuel  Chandler  of  the  Town  duxbery  of  plimoth.  ,  .for 
Twenty  pounds  by  William  Erie  of.  .  .Portsmouth.  .  .yeoman 
..  .have.  .  .sold.  .  .The  one  halfe  of  my  Lot.  .  .lying.  .  .at 
Acushenah  &  Coakset  &  places  Adjacent  Comonly  Called  The 
purchase  Land . . .  with  All .  . .  medows  woods  Timbers  watters 
.  .  .to  be  holden  as  of  his  Majesty.  .  .his  Manor  of  East  Green- 
wich. .  .Thirtyth  day  of  November.  . .  1660.  . . 
Wit.  The  mark  X  of 

Nathanill  Morton  Samuel  Chandler 

James  Cole  senior 
[311]     Phillip  Delano  to  William  Earle. 

...Phillip  Delano  of ..  .Duxbery.  .  .planter.  .  .for.  .  .Twenty 
pounds ...  paid  by  William  Earle  of . .  .portsmouth. .  .doe. . . 
sell... my  Lott...at  acushenah  &  Coakset  &  places  adjacent 
Comonly  Called  the  purchas  Land...  with  all...  medows 
woods  watters... To  be  holden  of  his  Majesty... as  of  his 
maner  of  East  green wich.  .  .thirtyth  day  of  November  1660.  . . 
Wit.  Phillip  delano 

Nathanill  Morton 

James  Cole  senior 
[312]     John  Cobb  to  Willilam  Earle. 

.  .  .John  Cobb  of  the  Town  of  Plimoth.  .  .Yeoman.  .  .for.  .  . 
Thirtene  pounds  six  shillings  &  eight  pence. .  .paid  by  William 
Earle  of  the  Town  of  portsmouth. .  .yeoman. .  .with  ye  Con- 
sent of  marthah  my  wife. .  .doe. .  .sell. .  .one  Third  part  or 
one  prt  of  Three  of  my  share  of  Land  Lying  at. .  .asheushena 
Cookset  &  places  adjacent. .  .known  by  the  name  of  the  pur- 
chass  Land... Both  upland  &  medow  with  all... woods 
watters... To  be  holden  as  of  his  Majesty. .  .his  Manor  of 
East  Greenwich. .  .twenty  sixth  day  of  September. ..  1662 
Wit.  Jno  Cobb 

Nathanill  Morton 

The  marke  of  Stephen  bryant 
X 
[313]     Samuel  Chandler  to    William    Earle    &  Danil  Wil- 
cockes. 


199 

...Samuel  Chandler  of ..  .Duxbery.  .  .planter.  .  .for.  . . 
Twenty  pounds. .  .paid  by  William  Earle  &  Danil  Wilcockes 
of. .  -Portsmouth. .  .yeoman. .  .have.  .  .sould. .  .one  halfe  of  a 
share  Lott...of  Land  Comonly  Called  the  purchas  Land... 
ascushana  Coockset  &  places  Ad j oyning. .  .Being  the  one 
halfe  of  a  share  Lott. .  .which  I. .  .Bought  of  Christopher  of 
marshfield  in  the  Jurisdiction  of  plimoth  &  by  him  Bought  of 
Jno  Sprague  of  Duxbery. .  .which  was  given  unto...Jno 
Sprague  by  his  Father  Francis  Sprague  of . .  .  Duxbery  both 
Upland  &  medow  with  all. .  .woods  Timber  watters. .  .To  be 
holdon  as  of  his  Majesty  his  Manor  of  East  greenwich... 
twenty  sixt  of  septb. .  .  1662. .  . 

Wit.  the  marke  X  of 

Nathanil  Morton  Samull  Chandler 

Jno  Richard 
[314]     James  Sands  to  William  Earle. 

...James  of  Portsmouth. .  .yeoman. ..  I. .  .James  Sands  for 
...full  sattisf  action. .  .paid. .  .in  the  Exchange  of  a  parcell 
of  Land  by  William  Earle  of  Coackset  in  the  Jurisdiction  of 
new  plimoth. .  .yeoman. .  .have. .  .Bargained.. .  (with  the  Con- 
sent of  Sarah  my  wife... one  halfe  of  a  share  of  Land... 
at  Accushnet  &  Coackset  &  places  adjacent  Comonly  Called 
the  purchas  Land 

(Incomplete) 
[315]     Benedict  Arnold  to  Newport. 

.  .  .Benedict  Arnold  senr  dwelling  in  the  town  of  Newport. . . 
having  bought  about  fifteen  years  sence  two  small  Islands 
Called  nomtussmuck  or  Goate  Island  And  weenachsett  or 
Coststers  barber  Lying  in  Narrowgansett  bay  neare...to 
Newport. .  .as  by  Awrighting  Date.  May  22th  1658. .  .under 
the  hand  of  Cachonaquant  Cheyfe  Sacham  of  Narrowgansett 
. .  .1. .  .for. .  .ten  pounds  Cuntry  pay . . . recived  of  the  town 
of  Newport. .  .first  day  of  may.  .  .1673 
Wit.  Benedict  Arnold  senr 

Richard  Bajly 
Joziah  Arnold. 


200 

[316]  John  Cranston  &  Caleb  Carr  to  Benedict  Arnold. 
...seventh  Day  of  february. .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred 
fifty  nine... John  Cranston  and  Caleb  Carr  both  of  newport 
hath...sould  unto  Benedict  Arnold  of  newport ...  one  fourth 
part  of  the  Islands  Caled  by  the  Indians  Aquebinockutt  and 
Canag^onockutt  and  by  the  English  Round  Island  and  Rose 
Island  being... in  the  Narraganset  Bay  and  between  Rhode 
Island  and  Quononaqutt  Island. . . 
Wit.  John  Cranston 

Thomas  Baker  Caleb  Carr 

Ralph  Earll 
[317]  Edward  Robinson  to  Edward  and  francis  Robinson. 
...Edward  Robinson  ofif  Newport. .  .yeoman,. .  .to  my  two 
Children  Edward  and  francis  Robinson  which  I  had  by  Mar- 
grett  Hall  and  because  they  are  under  Age  I  have  Chosen  as 
Feflfees.  .  .for  my. .  .two  Children,  Edward  Greenman,  Clem- 
ent Weaver  senio  and  Thomas  Burge  of . .  .  Newport . .  .  Yeo- 
men... doe  give, ...in  trust  and  on  the  behalf e  of  my  said 
Children  all  that  my  manshion  House  and  Land  In  the  Towne- 
ship  of  Newport.  .  .about  fourty  acres. .  .bounded  Northerly 
by  the  Land  of  Jno:  Parker  &  John  Allen,  Easterly  by  the 
common  Southerly  by  the  Land  of  John  Wood  and  Westerly 
by  the  common  or  highway. .  .the  same. .  .shall  be  the. .  .Es- 
tate. .  .of  my  two  sons. .  .and  the  surviver  of  them  if  any  one 
dyes  before  the  Other  Comes  to  the  age  of  twenty  one  yeares 
. .  .Eighteenth  day  of  may  1686 

the  marke 
Wit.  of   Edward  X  Robenson. 

John  Hulme 

the  marke  of 
John  X  Benett 

Edward  Robenson. .  .acknowledged. .  .above. .  . 

Walter  Clarke  Govr. 
[318]     WilHam  Read  to  Thomas  Brookes. 
...William   Read     of     Newport. .  .for. .  .sixty     five   pounds 
currant  Silver  money  of  New  England. .  .Paid. .  .by  Thomas 
Brookes  of  newport. .  .marriner. .  .doe. .  .sell. .  .one  mansion 


201 

house  and  all...  the  Lands. .  .belonging. .  .in  breadth  South- 
east and  Northwest  Sixty  foot  and  Southwest  and  northeast 
fourty  foot. .  .Lyeing. .  .in  newport. .  .Bounded  Southeast, 
Northeast  and  Northwest  by  the  Streets  of  the. .  .Towne  and 
Southwest  by  Land  in  the  possession  of  Thomas  Paine. .  .fift 
day  of  July. . .1687 
Wit.  Will:  Read 

John  Ward  the  marke  of 

Richard  X  Hasleton  Judy.  X  Read 

his  marke 

Thomas  Ward 

. .  .William  Read  &  Judy  his 
wife. .  .acknowledged  this... 
...Walter  Newbery  one  of 
the  Council 
[320]  George  Vaughan  to  Daniell  Vaughan. 
...George  Vaughan  of...  East  Greenwith. .  .for. .  .  A  Ser- 
taine  Parcell...of  Land. .  .Within  the  Towneship  of  East 
Greenwitch . .  .  and  Twenty  Pounds  in  money . .  .  Delivered  to 
mee. .  .by. .  .my  Brother  Daniell  Vaughan  Now  of...  New- 
port... and  Doe. .  .Release. .  .A  certaine  Parcell  of  Land... 
within. .  .Newport. .  .Thirty  acres. .  .bounded. .  .on  the  North 
...by  Land  in  the  Possession  of  Joshuah  Coggeshall  by  the 
West... by  the  Sea  or  Salt  Water,  by  the  South... by  the 
Highway  by  the  East... by  my  Father  John  Vaughan  his 
farme  being  formerly  Part  thereof ..  .With  all. .  .Houseing 
..  .woods. .  .ninteenth  day  of  March...  one  Thousand  Six 
hundred  Eighty  and  Six — 
Wit.  George  Vaughan 

Thomas  Fry 

Henry  Timberlake 
March  20th  1686  George  Vaughan ...  Owned  this...  Deed 

Caleb  Carr  Assistant 
[321]     John  Vaughan  to  Daniell  Vaughan. 
. .  .John  Vaughan  of  Newport.,  .unto  my  son  Daniell  Vaughan 
of    Newport ...  have   Given...  my   farme   or    Mansion   house 
with  all  the  Land ...  belonging  where    now   I  dwell   in  the 


202 

Towneship  of  Newport . .  .  about  fifty  acres . .  .  Bounded, 
Northwardly  by  Land  now... in  the  Possession  of  Joshua 
Coggeshall  in  part ...  by  the  Common  westwardly  by  Land  of 
. .  .  Daniell  Vaughan,  Southwardly  and  Eastwardly  by  the 
Common,  or  highwayes  and  Common, ..  .with  all... Build- 
ings, Gardens,  Orchards, . .  .  three  and  twentieth  day  of . . . 
July. .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  seven — 
Wit.  John  Gould  John  Vaughan 

Bartholomew  Hunt  his  X  marke 

William  Wodell 
John  Vaughan. .  .acknowledged. .  .Walter  Clarke  one  of  the 
Councill 

[322]  John  Vaughan  of  Newport. .  .whereas  my  son  Daniell 
Vaughan  of  Newport.  .  .is. .  .Possesed  of  a  certaine  Tract. .  . 
of  Land  in  the  Towneship  of  Newport ...  Containing  about 
thirty  acres . . .  Bounded  Westerly  by  the  Sea  or  Salt  water, 
Southwardly  by  a  common  Lane  or  highway  Northerly  by 
Land  now  in  the  possession  of  Joshua  Coggeshall  and  Easterly 
by  Land  of  mee . .  .  which . .  .  Land . .  .  Daniell  did  purchase  of 
his  Brother  George  Vaughan  as  by.  .  .writing. .  .bearing  date 
the  ninteenth  day  of  march... one  Thousand  Six  hundred 
Eighty  Six. .  .and. .  .was  formerly  mine...  being  part  of  my 
farme. .  .three  and  twentieth  day  of ..  .July. .  .one  Thousand 
Six  hundred  Eighty  seven 
Wit.  John  Vaughan 

John  Gould  his  X  marke 

Bartholomew  Hunt 

William  Wodell— 
John  Vaughan . . .  acknowledged   above . . .  Walter  Clarke   one 
of  the  Councile 

[323]     John  Alcock  to  John  Rodman, 

. .  .John  Alcock  of  Boston. .  .Merchant. .  .for. .  .Two  Hun- 
dred Pounds  Currant  mony  of  New  England. .  .paid. .  .by 
John  Rodman  of  Newport. .  .mercht:. .  .Have. .  .Sold. .  .One 
Sixteenth  Part  of . . . Newshorum  als  Block-Island. .  .knowne 
by  the  name  of  Mr  Bellinghams  part . . .  Formerly  in  the  Occu- 
pation of  Robert  Guthridge  and  Lately  in  the  Possession  of 


203 

Thomas  Mitchell  deed,  with  twenty  Five  acres  of  Land 
thereto  belonging  Laid  Out  to  that  Share  or  farme  Out  of 
Land  Sometime  belonging  to  Henry  Neale  and... all... 
Buildings  standing  thereon,  Lands . . .  Feedings  meadows 
Marshes. .  .Trees. . .  (Fort  Island  Only  Excepted) . .  .and. . . 
Doe. .  .appoint  my...  friend  Robert  Guthridge  of  Block  Isld 
. .  .my. .  .Attorney. .  .to. .  .Deliver  unto  the  sd  John  Rodman 
. .  .twenty  Seaven  day  of  August. .  .One  Thousand  Six  hun- 
dred Eighty  and  Seaven... 

Wit.  John  Alcock 

Thomas  Jackson 

Edmond  Browne 

Eliezer  Moody  sen 

Boston. .  .Augt.  27th  1687 
John  Alcock. .  .acknowl- 
edged this . .  . 

Jon  Usher 
memorandum. . .  1687. .  .possession. .  .was  given. .  .by  Robert 
Guthridge  the  Attorney  of... John  Alcock  to  John  Rodman 
[326]  John  Alcock  to  Phillip  Wharton. 
. .  .John  Alcock  of  Boston. .  .Merchant  sonn  &  heire  of  John 
Alcock  Late  of  Roxbury. .  .Physitian  Deceased. .  .Doe. .  .Re- 
lease... unto  Phillip  Wharton... of  Block  Island... and  now 
of...  Boston  Tobacconest. .  .One  Sixteenth  Part  of  Block 
Island.  .  .which. .  .Phillip  Wharton  formerly  possessed... 
and  to  One  Sixteenth  Part. .  .of  Block  Island  that  was  in  the 
Possession  of  John  Glover  Sometime  of  sd  Boston  &  now  of 
Swansey  in  New  England . . .  Lands . . .  meadowes  Marshes . . . 
Trees.  ..  (Excepting  only  out  of  the  prmises  Fort  Island... 
Twentieth  day  of  July... one  Thousand  Six  hundred  Eighty 
and  Six. . . 
Wit.  John  Alcocke 

John  Cooke 

Christopher  Kilby  Boston  July    21-1686 

Eliezer  Moody  sen  John       Alcock... ac- 

knowledged the  With- 
in.. . 

Wait  Winthrop 


204 

[328]  Phillip  Wharton  to  John  Rodman. 
, . .  Phillip  Wharton  and  Nathaniell  Briggs  both  now  of 
Block  Island. .  .Tobacconist. .  .for. .  .four  hundred  Pounds 
Currant  Silver  money  of  New  England ...  paid ...  by  John 
Rodman  of  Newport. .  .Have  Granted. .  .Land. .  .upon  Block 
Island  one  Lott  of  two  hundred  acres  and  tenn,  East  Butting 
on  the  pond  &  South  upon  the  Land  Now. .  .of  Nathall.  Dick- 
ins  &  West  upon  the  Sea  &  North  upon  John  Acres  Land  and 
five,  five  acre  Lots  Butting  upon  the  Salt  Pond,  and  in  the 
neck  three  four  acre  Lots  &  one  Eight  part  of  meadow  Land 
fresh  and  salt  and  one  meadow  Lott  Containeing  five  acres 
and  the  Eight  part  of  the  Lots  Commonly  Called  by  the  name 
of  the  ministr  Lotts  with  the  Eight  part  of  all  the  Commonage 
in  the  neck  &  out  of  the  neck  Except  six  acres  of  Land... 
alredy  Disposed  of  being... Late  in  the  possession  of... 
Nathall :  Brigs,  John  Dodge,  William  Dodge,  &  Trustrum  Doge 
with  all  the  woods. .  .twenty  fift  of  July  one  Thousand  six 
hundred  Eighty  &  four) 
Wit.  Philip  wharton. 

Robert  Little  Nathaniell  Briggs. 

Henry  Timberlake 

Nathall:  Coddington 
Phillip  Wharton    and    Nathaniell    Brigs. .  .acknowledged  the 
above  written. . . 

Walter  Clarke  Dept  Gouvr. 
[330]     Daniell  Gould  to  John  Sirkitt. 

...Daniell  Gould  of  Newport. .  .for. .  .thirty  pounds  form- 
erly Received  and  now  forty  pounds  of  currant  silver  Money 
of  New  England ...  paid  by  John  Sirkitt  of  Newport. .  .doe 
. .  .sell. .  .Land  Eyeing.  .  .in  the  Precincts  of  Newport. .  .con- 
taineing..  .twenty  acres  and  Bounded  on  the  South  by  Ed- 
ward Greenemans  Land  on  the  West  by  the  highway  or 
Common  on  the  North  and  East  by  the  Lands  of... Daniell 
Gould...  with  all. .  .Edefices. .  .twelfe  Day  of  September... 
1687 

Wit.     Peleg  Tripp  Danll :  Gould 

Thomas  Ward,  Scr: 


205 

Daniell  Gould. .  .acknowledged  the  above  written. . . 

Walter  Clarke 
[332]     William  Allen  to  John  Sirkett. 

...William  Allen  and  John  Rathborne  both  of  Newport... 
haveing  been. .  .in  possession  of. .  .Land  Lyeing. .  .in  the  pre- 
cincts of ..  .Newport. .  .containeing. .  .ten  acres  and  bounded 
on  the  South  by  Edward  Greenemans.  Land  on  the  West  by 
the  Highway  or  Common  on  the  North  and  East  by  the  Land 
of  Daniell  Gould  and...  in  consideration  of ..  .Sattis  faction 
...  received ...  for  Our, .  .Trobles,  .  .  .  Buildings. .  .and. . . 
costs. .  .concerneing  the. .  .Lands  of  John  Sirkett  of  Newport 
. .  .  Currier . . .  wee ...  be  fully  sattisfied . .  .  doe . . .  Quitclaime 
Unto...  John  Sirkett. .  .the  above  mentioned  Lands. .  .tenth 
day  of  October. . .  1687 

Wit.  William  Allen 

John  Ward  John  X  Rathborne 

Thomas  Ward  his  mark 

William    Allen    and    John    Rathborne ...  acknowledged .. . 

above. . . 

Walter  Clark 
[334]     John  Strainge  Senior  to  John  Strainge  Juni. 
...John   Strainge    Senior    of   Portsmouth. .  .for. .  .Sufficient 
maintenance  to  mee  and  his  Beloved  mother  in  Meat  Drink 
and  Lodgeing. .  .fitt  for  such  ancient  people  as  wee. .  .doe. . . 
confirme,  unto  my  sonn  John   Strainge  A  Parcell   of   Land 
containeing  twenty  acres . .  .  bounded  Northerly  and  Westerly 
by  the  common,  Southerly  and  Easterly  by  the  Land  of  Daniell 
Lawton  with  my  Now  Dwelling  House . . .  and  all  Moveables 
therein,  with  all  the  Stock. .  .fifteenth  day  of  October. .  .one 
Thousand  six  hundred  eighty  Seven 
Wit.  the  mark  of 

Latham  Clarke  John  X  Strainge  Sen: 

John  yelthro 
...John   Strainge   Senor :    Declared. .  .this. .  .Deed  in  New- 
port...  Seventeenth  day  of  October  1687 

Walter  Newberry  one  of  the  Councill . . . 
[335]     Samuell  Dyre  to  Charles  Dyre. 
...Samuell  Dyre    of    Boston. .  .Carpenter. .  .for. .  .two  hun- 


206 

dred  pounds  New  England  Money. .  .paid. .  .by  Charles  Dyre 
of  Newport . . .  Husbandman . . .  Have . .  .  sold . .  .  Land  Lyeing 
...In  Newport.  .  .boundeth. .  .on  the  East. .  .partly  by  cer- 
taine  Land. .  .Late  in  the  possession  of  mr  Francis  Brinley  & 
Left:  Collo:  Peleg  Sanford  on  the  South... by  Land... Late 
. .  .of  mr  Nicholas  Easton  &  mr  John  Clarke  on  the  West. .  . 
by  the  sea  &  on  the  north. .  .by  Land. .  .of  Henry  Dyre. .  .with 
the  Dwelling  House . . .  Orchards  Gardens  meadowes . . .  woods 
..  .Swamps. .  .Comon  of  Pasture. ..  (Excepting  One  Entire 
third  part  thereof  Layed  out  unto  mis  Katharin  Dyre  by. .  . 
the  Towne  Councill  of  Newport  in...i68i  as  her  Right  of 
Dower)  All...  the  Premises. .  .are. .  .in  Newport ...  and  now 
or  Late  in  the  Tenure  of... Charles  Dyre...fift  day  of  Oc- 
tober. .  .one  Thowsand  six  hundred  Eighty  and  seven. .  . 
Wit.     West.  Clarke  Samuell  Dyre 

Robert  Little. 

Daniell  Vernon. 

. . .  Samuell  Dyre . . .  acknowledged  this . . . 
Peleg  Sanford  Justice  of  the  peace 
[337]  Ann  Vernon  &  Daniell  Vernon  assent  to  Deed. 
Ann  Vernon  Mother  unto. .  .Samuell  Dyre  and  with  the  Con- 
sent of  my  Husband,  doe  allow... the  above... Sale  Relin- 
quishing my  Right...  of  Dower  or  thirds. ..  i8th  day  Oc- 
tobr.  1687 

Ann  Vernon 
. . .  Daniell  Vernon . . .  acknowledged . .  .  assent . . .  made  by  Ann 
Vernon  his  wife. .  .march  12th  1687-8  Newport. .  .Caleb  Carr 
Justice 

Andrew  Bowne  to  George  Lawton. 
. . .  Andrew  Bowne  of  new  yorke . .  .  merchant  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife. .  .for. .  .five  hundred  twenty  five  pounds. .  .currant 
money  of  new  England.  .  .by  George  Lawton  Junr:  of  Ports- 
mouth now  Resident  in  freetowne. .  .Husbandman, .  .paid. . . 
Have. .  .sold. .  .A  certaine  Farme  Parcell ...  being  part...  in 
the  Towne  of  Newport. .  .&  part. .  .in. .  .Portsmouth.  .  .con- 
taining Two  hundred  &  fourty  Acres... now  or  Late  in  the 


207 

holding... of  Robert  Allen... is  bounded  on  the  South  by 
Jonathan  Hulme  his  Land  on  the  West  by  the  Comon  on  the 
North  by  Lands  in  the  possession  of  Samuell  Sanford  &  on 
the  East  by  the  sea  or  salt  water  And. .  .all. .  .Houses  Ede- 
fices  Gardens  Orchards. .  .tenth  day  of  may...  one  Thou- 
sand six  hundred  Eighty  and  seven . . . 
Wit.  Andrew  Bowne 

John  Thurber  Elizabeth  Bowne 

Saul  Browne  . .  .Andrew.  .  .&  Elizabeth  his  wife. . . 

Joseph  Browne  acknowledged.  . . 

Winton  Tho  Dongan 

[339]     Peleg    Withington    Letter    of    Attorney    to    Weeton 
Clarke  &  John  Greene 

Barbados . . .  Peleg  Withington  of  the  Island  of  Barbados . . . 
resident  in  the  Towne  and  Parrish  of  St.  michalls . . .  doe . . . 
make  my. .  .friends  Weston  Clarke  Secretary  &  Jno  Greene 
mercht:  both  of ..  .Newport.  .  .my  True  and  Lawfull  Attor- 
neys... to  Demand... any  sums  of  money  Percells  of  Land 
Houseing.  .  .due. .  .unto  me...  Dated  in  Barbados  the  24th 
Day  of .  .  .  february .  . .  1686.  .  . 
Wit.  Peleg  Withington. 

Henry  Beer 

James  Hart 

Edward  Archer 

.  .  .before  mee 

Richard  Smith.  Novber:  17,  1687. 
{340]  William  Stoughton  to  John  Walley. 
...William  Stoughton  Esqr. .  .have. .  .received  By  Order  of 
John  Walley  Esqr:... five  hundred  Fifty  two  pounds  Tenn 
Shillings  Currant  Money  of  New  England  in.  .  .Condition  of 
. . .  Deed  of  Mortgage  for  Redemption  of  the .  . .  Premisses, . . . 
do.  .  .Release.  .  .Unto.  .  .John  Walley...  all  Right.  .  .which  I 
...have...  to  the  Lands. .  .therein  mentioned  to  be  Granted 
.  .  .Unto. .  .John  Walley. .  .as  Though  this. .  .Bargaine. .  .had 
never  beene. .  .Twenty  fift  day  of  November. .  .one  Thousand 
six  hundred  Eighty  seven.  . . 


208 

Wit.  William  Stoughton 

Jsa.  Addington 
Thomas  Dudley 

Boston  30th  Novemb.  1687 
William  Stoughton  Esqr. .  . 
acknowledged .  . . 

Jno.  Usher 
[341]  John  Walley  to  Stephen  Mumford  &  Robert  Ayres. 
. .  .six  and  Twentith  day  of  November. .  .One  Thousand  six 
hundred  Eighty  seven ...  Between  John  Walley  of  Bristoll  on 
the  one  part : — And  Steephen  Mumford  of  James  Towne  yeo- 
man and  Robert  Ayres  of  Newport ...  yeoman ;...  on  the 
Other  part... John  Walley  for.  ..six  hundred  and  Twenty 
pounds  in  Currant  money  of  New  England.  .  .by.  .  .Stephen 
Mumford  and  Robert  Ayres. .  .paid. .  .Hath. .  .sould. .  .his 
farme  containeing  about  Two  hundred  and  fourty  acres  of 
Land...  in  the  Towneship  of  Newport. .  .called.  .  .Braces 
farme  Late  in  the  Occupation  of  Richard  Allison  now  in  the 
actuall  possession. .  .of ..  .Robert  Ayres  being  the  whole  of 
that  farme  and  Lands  upland  Meadows  and  swamps.  .  .given 
by  William  Brenton  Esqr:  in.  .  .his  Last  will.  .  .unto  his  sonn 
Willam  Brenton. .  .bounded  Westerly  by  the  Land...  of 
Henry  Bull  and  Jirah  Bull,  Southerly  by  the  Land  of  Major 
John  Coggeshall,  Easterly  by  the  sea,  Northerly  by  the  Land 
of  John  Easton  Senr:  in  part...  by  the  Common. .  .with  all 
houses  Barnes. .  .Buildings  Wood,  Trees  and  Stones. .  .upon 
request. .  .of ..  .Stephen  Mumford  and  Robert  Ayres...  and 
at  their  Cost. .  .will. .  .performe  such  Other  act. .  .for  further 
Confirmation  of  the  above  granted. .  .so  as.  .  .John  Walley. . . 
be  not  compelled  to  travill  more  than  twenty  Miles  from  his 
..  .home. .  .Also  Sarah  wife  of...  John  Walley  doth...con- 
firme. .  .premises. . . 

Wit.  John  Walley 
Jsa:  Addington                                                 Sarah  Walley 
Thomas  Dudley 
Boston  30th  Novembr  1687  John  Walley  Esqr :..  .acknowl- 
edged this ...                              william  stoughton 


209 

[344]  John  Throckmorton  to  Jahleel  Brenton  and  others. 
...John  Throckmorton.  .  .of  middletowne  in  the  County  of 
Munmouth  in  East  Jersey.  .  .whereas  my  father  John  Throck- 
morton formerly.  .  .of  Providence.  .  .Deceased  Did  Owe... 
unto  WilHam  Brenton  of  Newport ...  Deceased  and  to  Alex- 
ander Bryant  of  milford  in.  .  .Conecticot  Deceased  the.  .  .Sum 
of  one  hundred  pounds  currant  pay  of  New  England ...  doe 
..  .Release. .  .unto  Jahleel  Brenton  and  Peleg  Sanford  both 
of  newport.  .  .Executors  to.  .  .William  Brenton  Deceased  and 
Richard  Bryant  of  Milford  son  to.  .  .Alexander  Bryant 
Deceased.  .  .the  Lands.  .  .belonging.  .  .formerly  unto  my... 
father  John  Throckmorton  Deceased  Eyeing... in  Providence 
.  .  .Both  upland  and  meadow.  .  .20th  day  of  may  1687 
Wit.  John  Throckmorton 

Jonathan  Marsh 

Grace  Lippencott 
.  .  .Newport.  .  .June  the  15th  1687 

Acknowledged  before  mee  John 

Coggeshall  one  of  the  Councill 
[345]  Debts  Released  unto  John  Throckmorton. 
...John  Throckmorton.  .  .of  Middletowne  in  the  County  of 
munmouth  in  East  Newjersey  and  Eldest  sonn  of  John 
Throckmorton  Late  of  Providence.  .  .Deceased  Did  Remise 
. .  .unto  Jahleel  Brenton  and  Peleg  Sanford  Both  of  Newport 
...Executos.  to  William  Brenton  Late  of  Newport.  .  .De- 
ceased and  Richard  Bryant  of  Milford. .  .son  to  Alexan- 
der Bryant  of...  Milford  Deceased.  .  .the  Lands  That  Did 
belong  Unto  his... Father  John  Throckmorton  of  Providence 
Deceased  Eyeing.,  .in.  .  .Towne  of  Providence.  .  .Dated  the 
twentieth  day  of  may  one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  and 
seven... And  alsoe  two  mortgages  formerly  made  Under  the 
hand . . .  of . .  .  John  Throctmorton . .  .  Deceased  Unto . . .  Wil- 
liam Brenton  Deceased  and . . .  Alexander  Bryant  Deceased . . . 
one  of  the ...  mortgages  being  Dated  the  Twentieth  day  of 
Aprill  one  Thousand  Six  hundred  fifty  and  three,  the  other 
. . .  Dated  the  thirtieth  day  of  September  one  Thousand  six 
hundred  fifty  five.  .  .wee  Caleb  Carr  of  newport.  .  .Attorney 


210 

for. ,  .Richard  Bryant  and. .  .Peleg  Sanford  have. .  .Released 
.  .  .Richard  Bryant  his  heires,.  .  .and  the  heires.  .  .of .  .  .Wil- 
Uam  Brenton  Deceased  and  the  heires. .  .of  Alexander  Bryant 
. .  .Release,. .  .unto. .  .John  Throckmorton  of  middletowne.  . . 
all ...  Debts ...  Eleventh  day  of  January. .  .1687-8 
Wit.  Peleg  Sanford 

John  Ward  Caleb  Carr 

Thomas  Ward 

Peleg  Sanford  and  Caleb  Carr.  ..the  iSth  day  of  January 
1687-8. .  .acknowledged. . . 

Attest  John  Coggeshall 
one  of  the  Councill . . . 
[347]     John  Baily  to  John  Briggs. 

. .  .John  Baily  of  Newport. .  .for. .  .one  hundred  fourty  and 
Six  pounds  Currant  silver  money  of  New  England.  ,  .paid.  . . 
by  John  Briggs  of  Portsmouth.  .  .Junior.  .  .have. .  .sould. . . 
f  arme  of  Land . . .  Scittuate  at  and  near  Pachit  Brooke  in  the 
Lands  called  Puncatest  Lands  in  the  County  of  Bristoll.  .  . 
Bounded  Southwardly  by  the  North  line  of  Little  Compton 
and  West  by  Pachit  brooke . . .  and  the  highway  Northerly  by 
maj :  Gouldings  Land  and  is  in  breadth  fifty  poles . . .  and  is  A 
mile  in  Length .  . .  Containeing  one  hundred  Acres .  . .  alsoe  the 
one  Eight  part  of  A  Share  in  Deale  of  all. .  .Undevided  Lands 
Eyeing.  .  .in  the  Precincts  of  the.  .  .Towne  of  Little  Compton 
. . .  with  the  Dwelling  house  on  the  said  Land  being  where 
Lately  David  Lake  Dwelt  with  all. .  .Edefecis  Gardens 
Orchards. .  .fourteenth  Day  of  february. .  .1687 


Wit. 

John  X  Baily 

Henry  Dyre 

his  marke 

Thomas  Ward 

...Sutton    Baily    the    wife    of... 

John  Baily  doe. .  .Release.  .  .Lands 

. .  .unto  John  Brigs. . . 

Sutton  X  Baily 

Henry  Dyre               her  marke 

Thomas  Ward 

John  Baily  and  Sutton  Baily  his 

211 

wife.  .  .acknowledged. .  .before  me 
Peleg  Sanford  Justice 
[349]  Thomas  Fish  to  Preserved  Fish. 
. .  .Thomas  Fish  of  Portsmouth. ,  .unto  my. .  .Grandson  Pre- 
served Fish  the  sonn  and  heire  of  my  Sonn  Thomas  Fish  Late 
of  Portsmouth.  .  .Deceased.  .  .have  Given.  .  .to  be  by  him.  . . 
Possessed.  .  .after  the  terme  of  Sixteene  years.  .  .which  will 
be  in  the  year  one  Thousand  Seven  hundred  the  Late  Dwelling 
house  of  my... Sonn  Thomas  Fish  Deceased.  .  .with  all... 
Lands  Orchards,  Gardens,  and  Out  houses... in  Portsmouth 
. .  .containeing.  .  .fifteene  Acres. .  .Bounded  on  the  North  by 
Stephen  Cornells  Land  on  the  East  by  Land  Lately  belonging 
to  Thomas  Cooke  Deceased  on  the  South  and  West  by  the 
Highwayes  or  common  of  the  said  Towne.  .  .second  day  of 
may.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  and  four 
Wit.  Thomas  fish 

Thomas  Ward 

Ammy  Ward 

Mary  Billing 

Thomas  Fish. .  .2:  day  of  may  1684.  .  .Did. .  .acknowledge 
this.  . .  John  Albro:  Assistant 

[350]  Jeremiah  Browne  to  John  Cooke. 
. .  .Jeremiah  Browne  &  Mary  Browne  wife  to. .  .Jeremiah  of 
Newport,. .  .for. .  .Thirty  &  nine  Pounds  Currant  Silver 
money. .  .paid. .  .by  John  Cooke  of  Portsmouth ...  Have .. . 
sould . . . Land . . . in  the  Towne  Ship  of  Portsmouth. .  .tenn 
Acres . . .  Bounded . . .  On  the  East  by  Land  now  in  the  pos- 
session of  George  Sisson  On  the  north  by  Land  of  Stephen 
Cornall  On  the  West  by  Land  formerly  belonging  to  Thomas 
Fish  of  Portsmouth  Deceased  On  the  South  Partly  by  Land 
of  sd.  John  Cooke  Sen  &  part  by  the  Common. .  .twenty  Ninth 
day  of  march. .  .1688 
Wit.  Jeremiah  Browne 

Robert  Little  Mary  Brown 

Weston  Clarke 
Jeremiah  Browne  and  Mary  Browne  his  wife.  .  .Did  acknowl- 
edge. .  .  Peleg  Sanford 


212 

[352]  Joseph  Barker  to  Lawrence  Turner. 
.  .  .Joseph  Barker  of  Newport.  .  .Talor.  .  .for.  .  .Eighty  Eight 
Pounds  of  currant  Silver  money  of  New  England ...  paid .. . 
by  Lawrence  Turner  Junior  of  Newport.  .  .husbandrnan.  . . 
have.  .  .sold.  .  .Land.  .  .in  the  Precincts  of  Newport... 
Twenty-nine  acres  and  Sixty-Seven  pole.  .  .bounded.  .  .on  the 
East  by  Land  now  in  the  Possession  of  Joseph  Barker,  North- 
erly by  Lands  of  Henry  Bull,  Nochelas  Evens  and  Andrew 
Langworthy  Westerly  by  Land  of  Andrew  Langworthy  and 
ihe  high-way  and  Southerly  by  Land  Andrew  Langworthy 
and  the  high  Way.  .  .with  all.  .  .the  Woods,  fences  Wayes. . . 
Vacant  Lands,  Commons. .  .Eight  day  of  march...  1688 
Wit.  Joseph  Barker 

Walter  Roades  Sarah  Barker 

William  Weeden 

Elias  Williams 

Joseph  Barker.  .  .acknowledged  this.  . . 

Walter  Newbery  of  the  Councell.  .  . 
[355]     William  Browning  to  Robert  Fish. 
. .  .William     Browning     of     Portsmouth.  .  .Planter.  .  .for.  . . 
seventy  pounds   Starll :  currant  money  of   New   England .  . . 
paid...  by    Robert    Fish    of    Portsmouth.  .  .Smith.  .  .have. . . 
sold.  .  .Land  which  was  Given  to  mee  by  my  Deceased  Grand- 
father  William    Freeborne   cittuate.  .  .in    the    Towneship    of 
Portsmouth .  .  .  Bounded .  .  .  Northerly  by  Undevided  Land  or 
common  Eastwardly  by  the  Highway  which  goeth  towards 
Newport  Sotherly  by  the  Land  of  Richard  Cadmone.     West- 
wardly  by  the  Land  of  Giddian  Freeborne.  .  .by  Estimation 
twenty  Acres...  12th  month  caled  february..  .1687-8  and  alsoe 
Rebeckah   Browning  wife  unto.  .  .William    Browning.  .  .free 
consent  to.  .  .Premisses.  .  . 
Wit.  his  marke  and  seal 

Christopher  Almy  William  X  Browning 

The  marke  of  his  mark  &  scale 

Zurall  Hall  Gidian  X  Freeborn 

her  marke  &  seale 
Rebeckah  X  Browning 


213 

Gidian  Freeborne  and  William  Browning  &  Rebeckah  his 
wife.  .  .acknowledged. . . 

John  Coggeshall  Justice  of  the  Peace 
[357]     Stephen   Mumford  &   Robert  Ayres  to   Sr.   William 
Phips. 

...Twenty  ninth  day  of  Novemb...one  Thousand  Six  hun- 
dred Eighty  seven ...  Between  Stephen  Mumford  of  James 
Towne.  .  .yeoman  and  Robert  Ayres  of  Newport.  .  .yeoman  of 
the  one  Part,  and  Sr.  William  Phips  Knight  late  of  Boston.  .  . 
on  the  Other  Part.  .  .Stephen  Mumford  and  Robert  Ayres  for 
.  .  .three  Hundred  pounds  in  currant  money  of  New  England 
.  .  .by. .  .Sr.  William  Phips  or  his  agent. .  .paid. .  .Have  given 
.  .  .their  Farme  containing  about  Two  hundred  and  fourty 
acres.  .  .Lyeing.  .  .within  the  Towneship  of  Newport.  . . 
Knowne  by  the  name  of  Braces  Farme  Late  in  the  occupation 
of  Richard  Allison  now  in  the  actuall  Possession  and  Tenure 
of...  Robert  Ayres, .  .upland  Meadows  and  Swamps  which 
they.  .  .purchased  of  John  Walley  of  Bristoll  Esq.  .  .bounded 
Westerly  by  the  Land  now  or  late  of  Henry  Bull  and  Irah 
Bull  Sotherly  by  the  Land  of  major  John  Coggeshall  East- 
wardly  by  the  sea  northerly  by  the  Land  of  John  Easton  Sen : 
.  .  .and  partly  by  the  Common.  .  .With  all  houses  Barnes.  . . 
Trees .  . . 
Wit.  Stephen  Mumford 

Nathal.  By  field  Robert  Avars 

Samll.  Crowley  Signum 

Anne  X  Mumford 
Esther  Ayars 
Boston  30th  November  1687 

Stephen  Mumford  and  Robert  Ayers.  .  .before  me  one  of 
his  majesties  Councill.  .  .acknowledged 

John  Walley 

Ann  Mumford  &  Ester  Ayres ...  acknowledged  before  me 
one  of  the  Councill.  .  .the  fourth  day  of  Ma}'  1688 

Walter  Newberry 
[361]     Agreement  betweene  John  Vaughan  &  Joshua  Cogges- 
hall. 


214 

...John  Vaughan  Senior  Liveing  in  the  Bounds  of  Newport 
and  Joshuah  Goggesliall  DKvelHng  Within  the  Bounds  of 
Portsmouth. .  John  Vaughan. .  .to  make...  a  part  of  the 
fenceing.  .  .betweene  the  Lands  of...Josuah  Coggeshall  and 
.  .  .John  Vaughan. .  .is  to  begin  at  the  Beech  Tree  being  the 
Corner  Tree  of .  .  .Joshuah's  Land  next  towards  the  Com- 
mon or  high  way  which  Leadeth  from  John  Goulds  towards 
George  Laitons  water  mill:  and  soe  to  fence  from  that  beech 
Tree  towards  the  sea  Unto  a  certaine  Great  Red  Oake  now 
Standing  in  the  Line  which.  .  .fence  is  measured  to  be  forty 
and  six  Pole  and  all  the  rest  of  the  fence  in  the  said  Line 
from  the  Red  Oake  downe  to  the  Sea  the  said  Joshuah  Cogges- 
hall. .  .is.  .  .to  make.  .  .Dated  the  20th  day  of  may  1671 
"Wit.  Joshuah  Coggeshall 

George  Hamond 

Thomas  X  nichols 
his  marke 
[362]     George  Lawton  to  Robert  Lawton. 
...George    Lawton    of    Portsmouth. .  .unto   my   son    Robert 
Lawton  of ..  .Portsmouth  have  given...  my  fourty  acres  of 
Land.  .  .being  in  two.  .  .Parcells  at  or  near  the  River  Called 
the  Wading  River  in  the  Towneship  of   Portsmouth  where 
now  I  Dwell.  .  .bounded  mostly  by  highways,.  .  .With  all... 
Dwelling    Houses...  and   mills,   gardens.    Orchards.  .  .second 
Day  of.  .  .June.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  Eight, 
Wit.  George  Lawton 

Thomas  Durfie 

William  Wodell 

George  Lawton  acknowledged  this.  . . 

John  Albro  one  of  his  majesties  Councill 
[363]     Samuell  Wilson  to  John  Holmes. 

. .  .  Samuell  Wilson  of  Rochester  in  the  Narrowganset  Coun- 
try. .  .for.  .  .Thirty  pounds'  Currant  silver  money  of  New 
England.  .  .paid.  .  .by  John  Holmes  of  Newport.  .Cordwinder 
..  .doe. .  .grant. .  .unto. .  .John  Holmes ...  one  halfe  of  A 
share   it   being  the   fourteenth    Part   of    all   the    Lands   and 


215 


meadowes  in  Point  Juda  Neck  in  Pettacomscott  purchase. , 
with  all.  .  .woods.  .  .Twenty  fourth  day  of  may.  .  .1687.  . . 
"Wit.  Samuell  Wilson 

Samll:  Cranston 

Robert  Little 

Weston  Clarke 

Samuell  Wilson 
port . . . 


.owned. .  .24th  day  of  may  1687  in  New- 


iPeleg  Sanford 
Justice  of  Peace 
[365]     Samuell    Wilson    of ..  .Rochester. .  .doe. .  .owne    my 
selfe. .  .to  be. .  .Indebted  Unto  John  Holmes  of  Newport.  . . 
in  the  full... Sum  of  one  hundred  pound  Currant  money  of 
New  England. .  .Twenty  fourth  day  of  may.  . .  1687 
The  Condition  of  the  above. .  .is. .  .that  if. .  .Samuell  Wilson 
shall  make  Good. .  .the  above. .  .John  Holmes. .  .in  the  quiet 
...possession  of  A  certaine  peace... of  Land  being  the  one 
halfe  of  a  Share  or  the  fourteenth  part  of  all  the  Land  and 
meados .  .  . Lyeing  in  point  Juda  Neck  which.  .  .holmes  pur- 
chased of.  .  .Wilson. ,  .by  A  deed. .  .bareing  Date  Even  with: 
These  presents  then  the  above.  .  .obligation  to  be  Void.  . . 
\Vit.  Samuell  Wilson 

Samll :  Cranston 

Robert  Little 

Weston  Clarke 

Samuell  Wilson. .  .owned  the  above  written. .  .Newport. . . 
24th  day  of  May  1687 

Peleg  Sanford  Justice  of  Peace 
[366]     Samuell  Wilson  to  Robert  Hana. 

.  .  .Samuell  Wilson  of.  .  .Rochester.  .  .in  New  England.  .  .for 
.  .  .my  Deceased  fathers  Last  will.  .  .as  also  the  Love.  .  .1  ow 
to  my  Brother  &  Sister  Robert  &  Mary  Hana  Have  Given.  .  . 
Unto  Robert  Hana.  .  .one  Equall  halfe  share  of  what  was  my 
fathers.  .  .In  all  that  Parcell  of  Land.  .  .in  the  Towneship  of 
Rochester. .  .Called  by  the  name  of  the  Thousand  Acres  Near 
Robert  Hasards  farm  he  now  Dwells  on  In  Rochestr. .  .26th 
day  of  June  one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  &  Eight.  . . 


2l6 

Wit.  Samuell  Wilson 

Jirah  Bull 
Ezechiell  Bull 
Henry  Bull  Jun 
Samuell  Wilson.  .  .before  me  one  of  the  Councill.  .  .acknowl- 
edged this.  .  .the  twenty  seventh  of  June  1688 

Walter  Newberry 
[367]  Wanuemaching  to  Robert  Stanton  etc. 
.  . .  whereas  there  was  A  perciell  of  Land  Containing  five  miles 
in  Length  And  one  And  halfe  in  breadth  the  bounds  of  it 
Lyeth  on  the  One  Side  to  A  River  Called  westotowtucket  & 
to  the  other  Side  to  A  river  Called  Ashuniunck  or  Else 
Adjoyning  to  mr  Samuell  Wilbors  Line  &  mr  John  porters, 
...  I  Wannemaching  have  sold  to  Robert  Stanton  &  George 
Gardner.  .. I.  .  .doe  bind  my  Self e.  .  .to  maintaine  the  Right 
&  title  of  the.  .  .Land  Above.  .  .upon  forfiture  of  All  the  Rest 
of  my  Land  on  the  Narrogansett  Cuntry.  .  .22th  day  of 
August.  . .  1662 

Wit.  the  marke  of 

George  Webb  X 

Hugh  Moger  Wanuemathen 

the  marke  of 
X 
to  wesecom  Indian 
[368]     David  Lake  to  John  Baily. 

.  . .  David  Lake  Inhabitant  at  A  place  Called  Pachit  in .  . . 
Puncatest  and  near  Adjoineing  to  the  northward  part  of  the 
Lands  of  Little  Compton  in  the  County  of  BristoU.  .  .for.  .  . 
one  hundred  and  fourty  pounds  Currant  Silver  money  of 
New  England.  .  .paid.  .  .by  John  Baily  of  Newport.  .  .doe.  . . 
sell.  .  .A.  .  .farme  of  Land.  .  .at  and  near  Pachit  Brooke... 
Bounded  Southwardly  by  the  north  Line  of  the  said  Towne 
of  Little  Compton  and  Westward  by  Pachitt  Brooke  and  the 
Highway,  Northerly  by  maj :  Goldings  Land  and  is  in 
Breadth  fifty  poles.  .  .and  is  A  mile  in  Length.  .  .Containeing 
one  hundred  Acres... and  also  the  one  Eight  part  of  A 
share.  .  .of  all.  .  .Undevided  Lands.  .  .in.  .  .Little  Compton.  . . 


217 

with  the  DvvelHng  house  on  the .  .  .  Land  being  where  now .  . . 
David     Lake      Dwelleth      with      alL .  .Edefeces,     Gardens, 
Orchards,. .  .seventeenth  Day  of  January.  .  .  1687-8 
Wit.  David  Lake 

Joseph  Timberlake 

WilHam  f obes  — 

...Sarah  Lake  the  wife  of... David 
Lake  Doe .  . .  Release .  . .  the  Rig^ht ...  I 
.  .  .have  in.  .  .Lands.  .  . 

Sarah  X  Lake 
Joseph  Timberlake 
WilHam  fobes 

...David  Lake  and  Sarah  his  wife  Acknowledged  this... 
John  Coggeshall  Justice  of  Peace 
[371]     Caleb  Carr  to  Thomas  Paine. 

...Caleb  Carr  of  James  Towne  Alias  Cononicut  Lsland... 
Junior.  .  .for.  .  .fifty  pounds  Currant  Silver  money  of  New 
England.  .  .paid.  .  .by  Thomas  Paine  of  Newport.  .  .marriner 
...have  Granted... A  house  Lot  With  A  Dwelling  house 
thereon .  . .  wherein  Thomas  Paine  Now  Dwelleth ...  in  New- 
port. .  .Containeing.  .  .fourty  foot  Square  and  Bounded  on  the 
South  East  by  the  Street  of  the  said  Towne  and  Southwest, 
Northwest,  and  Northeast  by  Other  Lands  or  Lots... of... 
Thomas  Paine.  .  .first  day  of  August.  .  .  1688 
Wit.  Caleb  Carr  Juni : 

John  Ward 

paule  Stephens 
[373]      Richard  Smith  to  John  Hull. 

.  .  .Richard  Smith  of  Rochester.  .  .for.  .  .five  hundred  pounds 
of.  .  .money  of  New  England.  .  .by  John  Hull  now  Residing 
at  NeAvport.  .  .marriner. .  .paid. .  .Have. .  .Sold. .  .Land. .  .in 
the  Island  Quononaqut  Als :  James  Towne.  .  .three  hundred 
and  Seventy  acres .  .  .  Bounded  Southerly  Upon  the  Land  of 
Joseph  mory,  Westerly  Upon  the  Sea  or  Narragansit  Bay, 
Northerl}^  by  a  highway  and  Easterly  by  a  highway.  .  .now  in 
the  possession.  .  .of  Richard  Peirce.  . .  with  all  Woods... 
swamps.  .  .Richard  Smith  and  Ester  his  wife.  .  .doe.  .  .Grant 


2l8 

.  .  .And  also.  .  .Richard  Smith  and  Easter  his  Wife  have.  . . 
Given.  .  .unto.  .  .John  Hull.  .  .all.  . -their.  .  .Portion  in  a 
small  Island  near.  .  .Island  of  Quononaqut  called ...  Dutch 
Island  and  Purchased  of  the  Indian  Sachems  with  the  Island 
Quononaqut ...  as  may  appear  more  at  Large  by  Instruments 
under  their  hands.  .  .wee.  .  .doe.  .  .sell.  .  .for.  .  .the  sum 
above  mentioned.  .  .and.  .  .doe.  .  .appoint  Joseph  Mory  of 
Jamestowne  als  :  Quononaqut  yeoman.  .  .their. .  .Attorney.  . . 
twentieth  day  of  January.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty 
&  seven, . . 
Wit.  Richd  Smith 

Lodowick  Updick  Ester  Smith 

William  X  Knowles 
his  marke 

Ephraim  More 

Jno:  Fones  — 

Richard  Smith  Esquire. .  .before  mee  one  of  the  Councill 

. .  .did  acknowledg. . . 

Walter  Clarke 

Quononqut  the  twenty  one  day  of  January  one  thousand  six 
hundred  &  eighty  seven  or  Eight 

..  .Lands.  .  .taken   by.  .  .Joseph    mory.  .  .and.  .  .Delivered    to 
...John  Hull... 
Wit. 

Nicholas  Carr 

John  Wood 

Richard  X  Beare  Tenant 
his  marke 
[376]     Michael  Perry  Reed :  of  John  Easton 

Boston  14th  march  1687-8 
Reed:  of  John  Easton  Constab:  of   Newport ...  seventy  five 
pounds  Thirteen  shills :  &  lod.  .  .for  the  Country  Rate  of  that 
Towne,    Nine   pounds   Two   shill:   &   6d   of   which... was   a 
receit  Given  for  before  Reed:   for  the  Use  of  John  Usher 

Esqr:  Treasurer: 

X  Michael  Perry 

£75— 13s— I  od 


219 

[S7^]  Francis  Erinley  Received  of  John  Easton. 
Received  of  John  Easton  Constable  of  Newport  twenty  Pence 
in  money  for  accot :  of  mr  Edward  Randolph  of  Boston,  and 
five  Bush  and  one  halfe  of  Barley  and  three  peckes  Wheat  he 
has  put  on  Board  the  Sloop  Desire  for... Mr:  Randolphs 
accot :  being  in  part  of  Payment  for  Copies  of  Laws  &  Com- 
missions due  to.  .  .Randolph.  .  .26th  January  1687 

Francis  Brinley 

Richard  Cadman  to  Isaac  Lawton. 
.  .  .Richard  Cadman  of  Portsmouth.  .  .weaver.  .  .for.  .  .Thirty 
pounds  Sterling  Currant  Money  of  New  England ...  Paid .. . 
By  Isaac  Lawton  of  Portsmouth. .  .Yeman,. .  .have. .  .sold,. . . 
ten  Acres.  .  .cittuate.  .  .in  the.  .  .Towneship  of  Portsmouth 
Bounded.  .  .Northerly  upon  the  Lane  or  highway  Easterly  by 
the  Undevided  Land  or  Commond  Southerly  and  westwardly 
by  the  Lands  of... Isaac  Lawton  and  Robert  Hodgson,... 
Eighteenth  day  of  October.  ,  .one  Thousand  Six  hundred 
Eighty  and  Eight .  . . 
Wit.  Richard  Cadman 

Robert  Fish  Sarah  Cadman 

Mathew  X  Greenhill 
his  marke 

...Richard  Cadman  and   Sarah  his  wife.  .  .Acknowledged 
...Deed... 

John  Coggeshall  Justice  of  Peace 
[380]     Richard  Cadman  to  Robert  Fish. 

...Richard  Cadman  of  Portsmouth. .  .for.  .  .one  hundred  & 
forty  pounds  in  money.  .  .paid  by  Robert  Fish  of  Portsmouth 
..  .have.  .  .sold.  .  .Land.  .  .in  the  Towneship  of  Portsmouth 
...twenty  Eight  acres.  .  .Bounded  Easterly  by  the  highway 
Southerly  by  a  Lane  that  goes  to  Robert  Houchins  and  the 
Comon  Westerly  by  Land  of  Nicholas  Browne  Northerly  by 
Land  of.  .  .Robert  Fish  and  Giddion  Freebome. .  .with  all. . . 
Houses,  Barns,  Kribs,  Orchards.  .  .to  be  holden  as  of  the  man- 
nour  of  East  Greenwich. .  .Elizabeth  Cadman  my  mother  and 
Sarah  the  wife  of  mee.  .  .consent.  .  .Two  and  twentieth  day 
of  September.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  eighty  eight — 


220 

Wit.  Richard  Cadman 

Christopher  Almy  Sarah  Cadman 

John  yelthro  EHzabeth  X  Cadman 

her  marke 

Richard   Cadman    came    with    his    wife    Sarah... and    did 
Acknowledg^e.  .  .deed.  .  .24th  of  September   1688 

John  Albro  one  of.  .  .Councill 

Elizabeth    Cadman... 25    day    of    October    1688    acknowl- 
edged .  .  . 

John  Albro  one  of.  .  .Councill 
[382]     Daniell  Greenhill  to  Henry  Brightman. 

Daniell    Greenhill    of ..  .Portsmouth.  .  .Maulster.  .  .for 

...one  hundred  and  twenty  four  pounds  of  Currant  money 
of  New  England  by  Henry  Brightman  of ..  .Portsmouth.  . . 
paid.  .  .Have.  .  .sould,.  .  .Land.  .  .in  the  Towneship  of  Ports- 
mouth. .  .Containeing  Twenty  three  Acres.  .  .bounded  north 
by  a  highway,  East  by  the  Land  of  Majo  John  Albro  South 
Esterly  and  South  by  Land  Lately  belonging  to  the  Late 
deceased  Icobod  Potter  and  partly  by  a  hieway  West  by 
(Land)  belonging  to  mr  George  Lawton.  .  .with  all.  .  .houses 
.  .  .  buildings,  fences,  Gardens,  Orchards, .  . .  one  and  thirtith 
day  of  December.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  three — 
Wit.  Daniell  Grennell 

John  San ford 

Mary  San  ford 

Daniell  Grenell.  .  .28  day  of  Aprell  1684  did  acknowledge. .  . 

John  Albro:  Assistant 
...Mary  Greenell  the  wife  of  Daniell  Greenell.  .  .do.  .  .con- 
sent unto.  .  .sale.  .  .one  and  thirtieth  day  of   December   one 
Thousand  Six  hundred  Eighty  three 
Wit.  Mary  X  Greenell 

John  Sanford  her  marke 

Mary  Sanford 

Mary  Greenell.  .  .  16  day  of  December  1684.":  .owed  this.  . . 
hur. .  .Deed 

George  Lawton  Assistant 
.  .  .William  Woddell  of  Portsmouth.  .  .Doe.  .  .Release.  .  .unto 


221 

.  .  .Henry  Brightman.  .  .my  Right.  .  .in.  .  .the  above.  .  .prem- 
isses... one  and  thirtieth  day  of  December.  .  .one  Thousand 
six  hundred  Eighty  three 

Wit.  WilHam  Wodell 

John  Sanford 
Mary  Sanford 

WilHam  Wodell.  .  .28th  day  of  Aprill  1684.  .  .Did  acknowl- 
edge. . . 

John  Albro  Assistant 
[384]     Samuell  Utiy  to  John  Maxson 

...Samuell  Utly  ,pf  Stoneingtone.  . .  for.  .  .ten  Pounds  Cur- 
rant Silver  money  of  New  England ...  paid  by  John  Maxson 
of  feversham. .  .Have. .  .Sould. .  .one  hundred  acres  of  Land 
...Lyeing  as  was  formerly  Deemed  within  the  Precincts  of 
Stoneingtone,  but  now  in  feversham.  .  .Butted.  .  .beginning  at 
A  White  Oake  tree  Marked  on  four  sides  standing  on  the 
East  side  of  Ashaawage  River  Joyneing  to  Land  Laid  out  to 
George  Cooke  from  thence  Runeing  Southwardly  and  Joyne- 
ing to  Ashuwage  River  Thirty  Rhods  to  a  white  Oake  tree 
marked  on  four  sides,  from  thence  Eastwardly  thirty  Rhods 
to  a  white  Oake  tree  marked  on  four  sides  from  thence  Run- 
ing  one  hundred  and  thirty  Rods  Southward  to  A  white  Oake 
tree  marked  on  four  sides  standing  by  a  Little  Run  of  water 
from  thence  Runing  Easterly  one  hundred  Rods  to  A  white 
Oake  Tree  marked  on  fower  sides  from  thence  Runing  upon 
A  direct  Line  to  the  Southeast  Corner  tree  of  Land  Layd  Out 
to  George  Cooke  which  Tree  is  a  black  Oake  tree  marked  on 
four  sides  and  soe  Joyning  to  the  said  Cookes  Land  to  the 
Tree  first  mentioned. .  .two  and  twentieth  day  of  february. . . 
one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  seven  or  Eight 
Wit.  Samuell  Utley 

John  Brown 
Thomas  Browne 
.  .  .Acknowledged  by  Samuell  Utley  thirty  one  day  of  Decem- 
ber 1688 

James  Pendleton  Justice  of  the  peace 
[386]     Weston  Clarke  to  Daniell  King. 
.  .  .Weston  Clarke  of  Newport.  .  .for.  .  .fourty  shillings  Cur- 


222 

rant  money.  .  .paid  by  Daniell  King  of  Prudence  Island  Ship- 
wright Have.  .  .Sould.  .  .one  quarter  part  of  my  share  of  the 
Purchase  of  Westconayett  Lands. .  .22th  day  of  Sept:  1687 

West:  Clarke 
...it  is. .  .understood. .  .A  Quarter  part  of  a  hole  share  of 
Land . . . 
Wit.  West.  Clarke 

Samll:  Gardiner 

Robert  Little 
Weston  Clarke  before  me  acknowledged  the  above  written. . . 

Walter  Clark  o£  the  Counsell 
[387]     Eseck  Carr  to  Robert  Carr. 

. .  .Esecke  Carr  and  Susanah  his  Wife  of  Little  Compton. . . 
for. .  .Twenty  pounds  Currant  silver  money  of  New  England 
...paid...  By  Robart  Carr  of  Newport. .  .Have. .  .sold.  . . 
halfe  an  acre. .  .in. .  .Newport. .  .Bounded.  .  .East  on  the 
Land  of  Majo.  Peleg  Sanford  South  on  Land  now  in  the 
possession  of  mr  Francis  Brinley  &  mr  Caleb  Carr  Sen :  North 
on  the  Land  of. .  .Robert  Carr  &  Land  now  or  Late  in  the 
Possession  of  Samuell  Gardner  West  on  the  highway  or 
Common  Road  Leading  through  Newport  Towne  Into  the 
necke. .  .first  day  of  August. ,  .1687 
Wit.  Eseck  Carr 

Samll :  Gardner  Susanah  Carr 

John  Tillinghast  her  X  mark 

Weston  Clarke 

Eseck  Car  and  Susannah  Carr  his  wife  acknowledged  this 
. .  .thirteth  day  of  November  1687 

Joseph  Church  Justice  of  the  Peace 
[388]     John  Parker  to  George  Sisson. 

...John  Parker  of  Newport ...  Husbandman ...  and  Esther 
his  Wife  for. .  .one  hundred  twenty  five  pounds  ten  shillings 
of  currant  Silver  money  of  New  England. .  .paid.  .  .by  George 
Sison  of  Portsmouth. .  .Husbandman. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .Land 
..  .in. .  .Newport.  .  .one  and  Thirty  acres  and  bounded... 
Easterly  on  Lands  of  John  Allin,  Southerly  on  Lands  for- 
merly of  Edward  Robinson,  Westerly  and  Northerly  on  the 


223 

Common,. .  .with  all. .  .Dwelling  Houses  Out  houses,  Woods, 

. ,  .twenty  eig^ht  day  of  february.  . .  1688 

Wit.  his  marke 

Peleg  Tripp  John  X  Parker 

John  Sanf  ord  her  marke 

Elias  Williams  Esther  X  Parker 

John  Parker  and  Esther  his  wife  did  on  the  fourth  day  of 
March. . .  1688  acknowledge. . . 

John  Albro  one  of. .  .Councill 
[390]     James  Man  to  Phillip  Smith. 

...James  Man  of  Newport.  .  .for. .  .one  hundred  and  sixty 
pounds  currant  Silver  money  of  New  England ...  Paid ...  by 
Phillip  Smith  of  Newport. .  .have. .  .sould. .  .A  certaine  farm 
.  . .  Containeing  f  ourty  Acres ...  in  Newport . . .  Bounded 
Southerly  by  the  Lands  of  Jonathan  Hulmes,. .  .Phillip 
Smith,  Thomas  Ward,  and  Samuell  Baily,  Westerly  by  James 
Barkers  Land  and  the  highway  Northerly  by  the  Land  of . . . 
Phillip  Smith  and  Eastwardly  by  the  Land  of ..  .Jonathan 
Hulmes ...  with  all. .  .Houses. .  .Barnes  Orchards,  Gardens 
Woods.  .  .Thirteenth  day  of  march.  . .  1688 
Wit.  James  Man 

John  Ward 

John  X  Pebody 
his  marke 

Thomas  Ward 

. .  .James    Man   acknowledged   Deed   Before   mee   Francis 
Brinley  one  of  his  Majties :  Justices 
[392]     George  Lawton  to  Robert  Lawton. 
...George  Lawton   of   Portsmouth. .  .Unto  my   son   Robert 
Lawton  of ..  .Portsmouth  have  Given...  my  Goods  Chattells, 
Utensils,. .  .Debts  to  me  Oweing,  Bills,  Bonds,  Specialties,. . . 
all  other  things. .  .in  whatsoever  place. .  .they. .  .may  be  found 
. .  .second  day  of. .  .June.  .  .one  Thousand  six  hundred  Eighty 
eight 
Wit.  George  Lawton 

Isaac  Lawton 

Thomas  Durfie 


224 

William  Wodell 

George  Lawlon  did.  .  .acknowledge  this.  . . 

John  Albro  one  of  his  Majestyes  Counciell 
[393]     William  Wodell  to  Robert  Lawton. 
...William    Wodell    of    Portsmouth.  .  .for.  .  .four    hundred 
pounds  in  money.  .  .paid  by  Robert  Lawton  of.  .  .Portsmouth, 
have.  .  .Sould.  .  .Land.  .  .Within     the     Bounds     of...  Ports- 
mouth. .  .one  hundred  and  ten  acres.  .  .bounded  Northwardly 
by  Land  now  in  the  Possession  of  Robert  Dennis  in  part  and 
...by  Land  in  the  possession  of  William  Burrington  East- 
wardly  by  the  Sea  or  Salt  water  Southwardly  by  Land  now .  . . 
of  Peleg  Shearman  and  Westward  by  the  Common  high  way 
.  .  .with  all.  .  .Buildings,  gardens,  Orchards,.  .  .twelfth  day  of 
the  moneth  Called  february . .  .  1688-9 
Wit.  William  Wodell 

Joseph  Timberlake 

John  Norcut 

John  Anthony 

William  Wodell  Junor 

Portsmouth  february  the  18th  1688-9. .  .William  Wodell... 
acknowledged . .  .  Deed .  . . 

John  Albro  one  of.  .  .Councill 
[395]  Attest  of  John  &  JefTery  Christophers. 
...We  John  Christophers  Master,  Jefifery  Christophers  Mate 
&c.  belonging  to  the  good  barque  Reserve  of  New  London, . . . 
bound  from  Barbados  to  Newport. .  .being  at  Sea,  On  tues- 
day  the  Twentie  Ninth  Day  of  October  Last  past.  In  the 
Latitude  of  Thirtie  Nine  Degrees  and  thirtie  five  Minits  by 
dead  reckoning. .  .Mett  with  a  most  violent  and  Tempestuous 
storm,. .  .that  wee  were  forced  to  Lye  by  or  a  Hull,  wind 
being  at  South  East.  On  Wednesday. .  .the  thirtith  day  we 
were  forced  to  Scudd  with  bare  poles  in  a  most  Violent  and 
great  Sea  breaking  over  us  and . . .  bareing  away ...  all  hogs- 
heads and  Casque  from  ofif  our  deck. .  .Wee. .  .do. .  .Protest 
and  exclaim  against  the  Seas  according  to  Custome. .  .thirtieth 
day  of  November  One  thousand  Six  Hundred  Eighty  and 
nine. . . 
. .  .John  Christophers  John  Christophers 


225 

Geffery  Christophers  &  Jeffrey  Christophers 

Benjamin  Waters. .  .the  the  marke  and  seall  of 

Last  day  of  Novemb  1689  &  X 

swore. .  .to  the  truth.  ,  .  Benjamin  Waters 

John  Coggeshall  Depty  Gov: 
[396]     James  Case  to  Joseph  Carde. 

...James  Case  of  Seconett  alias  Little-comtowne) ..  .Hus- 
bandman and  Anna  his  Wife.  .  .for.  .  .fourty  pounds  of  Cur- 
rant money  of  New-england.  .  .paid.  .  .to  Joseph  Carde  of 
Newport.  .  .Husbandman.  .  .do.  .  .Sell.  .  .land  being  in  thy 
Precints  of  Newport.  .  .twelve  acres ...  bounded ...  Notherly 
on  the  undevided  Lands  or  common,  Easterly  on  the  highway 
partly,  and ...  on  Land  or  Orchard  wch :  formerly  was  called 
Knight  Orchard,  Southerly  partly  on  Sd :  Orchard,  partly  on 
Land  of  John  Greene  and  partly  on  Land  of  John  Rogers,  and 
Westerly  on  Lands  of  the  Sd:  Joseph  Carde,. .  .with  all... 
Commons,  Fences,. .  .tenth  day  of  January. .  .  1688-89.  •  • 
Wit.  Jeames  Case 

his  mark  Anna  Case 

Larance  X  Turne 

Edward  Greenman 

Elias  Williams 

Jeames  Case...  with  his  wife  Anna  did  acknowledg.  .  .11 
day  of  January  1688-89  before  me  John  Albro 

one  of  his  Majesties  counsell 
[398]  Hugh  Mosher  to  Henry  Brightman.  ► 
.  .  .Hugh  Mosher  of  Portsmouth.  .  .Black  Smith.  .  .for.  .  .two 
hundred  And  thirty  pounds  in  mony.  .  .payd  by  henry  Bright- 
man  of  Portsmouth.  .  .have  given ...  Land ...  in  the  township 
of  Portsmouth.  .  .And  part  In  newport  bounds.  .  .thirty  Eight 
Acres.  .  .bounded  northward  by  Land  of  John  Vahan  East- 
wardly  partly  by.  .  .Land  of  Daniell  Lawton,  Called  hunting 
Swamps  &...by  the  Common  Southwardly  partly  by  the 
Common  &  partly  by  Land  of  witherington,  westwardly  by 
the  Common. .  .with  all  the  dwelling  houses  Barnes  Orchards 
. .  .1. ,  .Hugh  mosher. .  .granted  unto  him. .  .Rebeckah  Mosher 


226 

the  wife  of  mee ...  Consent ...  twenty  eight  Day  of  January 

. .  .  One  thousand  six  hundred  Eighty  nine 

Wit,  Hugh  Mosher 

Peleg  Trip  the  mark  of 

Thomas  Cornell  Rebeckah  X  Mosher 

John  Yelthro: 

Hugh  &  Rebeckah  Mosher. .  .the  30th  day  of  January  1689 
. . .  owned  the  above  written 

John  Coggeshall  Depty  Genr 
[400]     John  Hart  to  Ralph  Chapman. 

. .  .Tenth  day  of  Desemb. ,  .1688  Betwene  John  Hart  of . . . 
Newport ...  Marrino  &  Ralph  Chapman  of  said  Island... 
shipwright  for. .  .Eighty  pound  Currant  mony  of  new  England 
. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .unto  the  said  Ralph  Chapman. .  .Land. .  .in 
the  Narragansett  Cuntry. .  .qtaining  five  hundred  Acres... 
Lying  About  foure  miles  from  Pitticomquott  Rock  Southwest 
being  neare  the  place  Called  Durty  Swamp  on  the  west  partly 
by  A  highway  tenn  Rods  wide  betwene  the  said  Land  &  the 
greatt  pond  &  partly  by  other  Lands  Not  as  yett  Layd  out  & 
one  north  &  Easterly  by  Other  Lands  yett  Layd  out . . . 
Wit.  John  Hart 

Robart  Little  Jeames  Hart 

Thomas  Gould  Mary  Cranston 

Roger  Goulding  Samll  Cranston 

Walter  Clark 
freeborne  Clark 
...Samuell    Cranston   the   husband   of...mary    Cranston... 
Consented  to. .  .sale. . .  Giles  Slocome  Ast 

Newport ...  Jun    13th:    1698   Walter    Clarke   &    freeborne 
Clarke. . . Acknowledment  of. .  .sale 
Wit.  Samll  Cranston  Govr 

Ebenezer  Slocom 

Benjamin  Barton 
[401  ]     Frances  Brinly  to  William  Mays. 
...Frances    Brinly   of    Newport. .  .for. .  .mony.  .  .payd.  .  .by 
William  Mays  of.  .  .Newport.  .  .Have.  .  .sold.  .  .unto  William 
Maise...one  quarter  of  An  Acre... now  fenced  with  Pailes 


227 

with  the  hous  &  housing-  share  on  building  &  buildings  which 
said  Peace  of  Land  being  bounded  on  the  north  by  Land  of 
my  sister  Ann  Coddingfton  on  the  west  by  Land  Given  to  my 
Cozen  William  Coddington  on  the  South  &  East  by  the  Streatt 
Lane. .  .Newport. .  .Fabuary  the  nineteenth  1673-4 
Wit.  Frances  Brinly 

Jeames  Loyd  Hannah  Brinly 

John  X  Wood 
his  marke 

Thomas  Brinly 
[402]     Robart  Evers  to  William  Edwards. 
..  .Robart  Ewer  Marcht.  &  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  philadelph 
for. .  .mony. .  .payd  to  us  from  William  Edwards  of  New- 
port. .  .mercht. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .Land. .  .in  the    Township  of 
Newport. .  .Eighty  foott  frount  to  the  Streatt  &  so. .  .by  the 
Land  of  William  Mays  sen  &  William  mays  Jun  on  the  East 
&  west  &  on  the  North  by  Land  of  Nathall  Coddington  who 
Is  to  make  halfe  the  fence  of  that  Line :...  Second  of  July 
1692 
Wit.  Robert  Ewer 

Nathanll  Coddington 

George  Allin. 

John  Tuker 
[403]     Henry  Hall  to  Jeames  Ray. 

...Henry  Hall  of  westerly  weaver. .  .for. .  .five  pounds  of 
mony  of  New  England ...  payd ...  by  Jeames  Ray  of  Kings 
town. .  .planta. .  .doe.  .  .sell. .  .one  hundred  Acres  of  Land. . . 
northwest  from  John  Sheldons  dwelling  hous  bounded... 
East  side  on  the  fresh  pond  on  the  north  by  the  pine  swampe 
&  on  the  west  on  John  Cottrall  &  John  Crandalls  Easterly  on 
the  South  End  of  the  Ceader  Swampe,  that  I  have  under  the 
hand... of  Coianaquante  as  Appeareth  more  Largly  upon 
the  Genii  records  of  Rhoad  Island, ...  forth  day  of  July... 
one  thousand  six  hundred  ninty  &  three 
Wit.  the  marke  of 

the  marke  of  Henry  X  Hall 

Frances  X  Culegrove 


228 

the  marke  of 
Daniell  X  Wilcocks 

...Acknowleg  by  Henry  Hall. .  .before  me  Joseph  Clarke 
Consurvator  of  the  peace  Westerly  the  7th  Day  of  septembr 

1693 

[404]     Henry  Hall  to  William  Tannor 

...Henry  Hall  of  westerly  weaver. .  .for.  .  .five  pounds  of 
mony  of  New  England . . .  payd ...  by  William  Tanno  of 
Kins  town  plantter. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .one  hundred  Acres  of 
Land... Lying  westerly  from  John  Sheldings  Dwelling  hous 
bounde .  . .  begining  at  the  brooke  of  John  Sheldings  bounds 
&  So  up  his  bounds  Sixcore  poles... to  A  white  Oake  tree 
marked  on  three  sides  &  from  thenc  south  &  be  west  nearest 
sixscore  poles  to  A  walnutt  bush  &  from  thence  west  nearest 
to  the  river  to  An  Ash  tree  marked  on  foure  sides  &  so  up 
Streame  to  the  furthest  that  I  have  under  the  hand... of 
Coianaquant. .  .forth  day  of  July...  one  thousand  six  hun- 
dred ninty  &  thre 
Wit.  the  marke  of 

the  marke  of  Henry  X  Hall 

Frances  X  Colegrove 

the  marke  of 
Danll  X  Wilcock, 

...Acknowle  by    Henry    hall. .  .before     mee    Joseph  Clark 
Consr  of  the  peace  westerly  this  7th  day  of  Sept  1693 
[405]     Henry  Hall  to  peter  wells. 

. .  .Henry  Hall  of  westerly. .  .for. .  .five  pounds  of  Mony  of 
New  England ...  payd ...  by  peter  wells  of  Kings  town... 
plant. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .one  hundred  Acres  of  Land.  .  .west- 
erly from  John  Sheldens  dwelling  hous  bounded ...  Lying 
twelve  Score  pole  in  Length  North  west  &  South,  East 
bounded  on  petticomcott  Line  &  in  breadth  three  score  & 
tenn  pole  &  the  same  Length  on  the  west  side  Joyning  to  the 
Land  whare  Jobe  badcock  Liveth  &  at  the  Corner  of  Jobe 
badcock  fence  A  Little  bush  marked  &  from  thence  Northerly 
to  A  small  tree  marked  on  foure  sides  foure  pole  from  John 


229 

Sheldens  that  I  have  under  the  hand...  of  Coganaquant. . . 
forth  day  of  July.  •  .one  thousand  six  hundred  Ninty  &  three 
Wit.  the  marke  of 

the  marke  of  Henry  X  Hall 

Frances  X  Colegrove 

the  marke  of 
Danll  X  Willcock 

..  .Ackleg  by..  .Henry  hall  before  mee  Joseph  Clarke  Consy 
of  the  peace  Westerly  the  7th  of  Sept  1693 
[405]     Henry  Hall  to  John  Crandall. 

...Henry  Hall  of  westerly  wever. .  .for. .  .five  pounds  of 
mony  of  New  England. .  .payd. .  .by  John  Crandall  of  war- 
wick. .  .have. .  .sold.  .  .one  hundred  &  fourescore  Acres...' 
north  west  from  John  Sheldens  dwelling  hous  bounded . .  . 
begining  at  A  greatt  white  Oake  tree  &  so  Runs  Northerly 
to  A  stake  &  from  thence  upon  A  straitt  Course  to  the  head 
&  from  the  greatt  whitt  oake  tree  to  Anohter  whitt  Oake 
tree  marked  from  thence  Adirect  Line  to  the  river  with 
Adrift  way  in  the  Olde  path  tht  I  have  under  hand... of 
Coganiquante.  .  .fourth  day  of  July,  one  thousand  Six  hun- 
dred Ninty  &  three : 
Wit.  The  marke  of 

The  marke  of  Henry  X  Hall 

Frances  X  Colegrouve 

the  marke  of 
Daniell  X  Willcock 

.  .  .Acknowledge  by.  .  .Henry  hall. .  .before  me  Joseph  Clarke 
Consr  of  the  peace  Westerly  the  7th  of  Sept  1693 
[407]     Henry  hall  to  John  Shelden. 

...Henry  hall  of  Westerly. .  .weaver. ..  for. .  .tenn  pounds 
of  mony  of  New  England ...  payd ...  by  John  Shelden  of 
Kings  town. .  .planter. .  .have.  .  .sold. .  .two  hundred  Acres 
...northwest  from... John  Sheldins  dwelling  hous  bounded 
...  at  Awhitt  oake  tree  marked  on  f  oure  sides  at  the  South 
east  Corner  &  from  thence  North  &  by  west  nearest  to  Alittle 
brooke  tenn  score  pole... to  Astake  &  so  the  brook  is  the 
bounds  westerly  Eight  Score  poles . . .  the  line  Corns  west  & 


230 

be  south  nearest  to  Atree  marked  by  the  broke  &  from  thence 
tenn  score  poles . . .  South  &  by  East  to  Asmall  whitt  oake 
tree  marked  on  foure  sides  &  so  from  thence  to  the  Afore 
mentioned  tree  on  Astraight  Line  Eight  Score . .  .  that  I  have 
under  hand...  of  Coganaquant ...  forth  Day  of  July...  one 
thousand  Six  hundred  Ninty  &  three. 
Wit.  The  marke  of 

the  marke  of  Henry  X  Hall 

Francis  X  Colegrove 

the  marke  of 
Danll  X  Wilcock 
. .  .Acknowledged    by. .  .Henry     hall. .  .before     mee    Joseph 

Clark  Consurvator  of  the  peace 

Westerly  this  7th  day  of  Sept  1693. 
[408]     Benjamin  Condon  to  John  Sheldon. 
...Benjamin    Condon   Late  of   the   town   of   Portsmouth... 
plantr. .  .for. .  .seven  pounds...  pd  by  John  Shelldon  of  the 
Narroganset  Cuntry. .  .planter. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .thirty  &  three 
Acres. .  .being  in  the . .  . narrowgansett     Cuntrey  neare  pety- 
quomsett  it  being  part   of  Aparciell ...  Containing  two   hun- 
dred  &  thirty  Acres   to   mee  granted  by   William   Brenton, 
Benedict  Arnold  John  Hull  John  Porter  Samll  wilbor  Samll 
wilson   &   Thomas   mumford   as...  by  Adeed. .  .Baring   date 
the  two  &  twentyeth  day  of  Septembr  in  the  year  one  thous- 
and six  hundred  Seventy  &  One... six  &  twentieth  Day  of 
Octobr..  .1683 
Wit.     Edwd  Richmond  the  marke  of 

George  Hamonde  Benjamin  X  Congdon 

Acknowledged   by   Benjamin    Congdon   Joseph   Clarke   Con- 

survot  of  the  peace 
[409]  Henry  Hull  to  Johnathan  Knight. 
...Henry  Hull  of  Westerly  Wever. .  .for. .  .Iwelve  pounds 
&  tenn  shillings  of  moeny  of  New  England ...  payd ...  by 
Johnathan  Knight  of  Warwick . . .  mason . . . have . . .  sold . ,  . 
two  hundred  Acres ...  northwest  from  John  Sheldons  dwell- 
ing hous  with  A  skirt  of  .Land  to  pitticomcott  Line — Resering 
Ahigh    Way : . . .  bounded . . .  begining    at    Aread     Oake    tree 


231 

marked  on  foure  sides  standing  at  the  south  Corner  eight  pole 
from  John  Sheldons  Corner  &  so  from  thence  east  &  benorth 
ten  score  pole  to  Awhitt  Oacke  bush  marked  on  foure  sides 
&  from  thence  eight  score  poles  to  Astake  standing  north 
&  by  west  in  the  plaine  which  belongs  unto  John  Crandall  & 
so  from  thence  west  &  be  south  ten  score  poles  to  Astake 
marked  on  foure  sides  Eight  pole  from  John  Sheldons  Line 
&  so  on  Astraight  Line  to  the  first  mentioned  tree,  that  I 
have  under  hand...  of  Coganaquant ...  forth  day  of  July... 
one  thousand  Six  hundred  Ninty  &  three 
Wit.  the  marke  of 

the  marke  of  Henry  F  Hall 

Frances  C  Colegrove 
the  marke  of 

Danll  X  Wilcock 
...Acknowledge     by...  Henry     hall. .  .before     mee     Joseph 
Clark  Consr  of  the  peace  Westerly  the  7th  of  Septr  1693 
[410]     Peleg  Sanford  to  Peleg  Slocom. 
. .  .Peleg  Sanford  of  Newport. .  .for. .  .One  hundred  &  fifty 
pounds    Currant   Silver   mony   of    New   England ...  payd   by 
Peleg  Slocom  of  the  township  of  Darkmouth  in  the  County 
of  new  Bristoll  in. .  .New  plymouth. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .the  one 
half  of  the  westermost  Island  Commonly  Called ...  Elizabeth 
Island  Alis  Cuttohunken ...  being  in  the  Govr  ment  of  new 
yorke  qt  224  Acres. .  .nineteenth  day  of  Apriell. .  .One  thous- 
and six  hundred  ninty  three 
Wit.  Peleg  X  Sanford 

Epharim  Turner  his  marke 

John  Yelthro : — 

Coronell  Peleg  Sanford  &  his  wife 
Mary  Acknowledged ...  deed .. .. 
the  19th  of  Apriell  1693 

Benedict  Arnold  Ast : 
[412]     Ezekiell  Bull  to  Joseph  Case. 

...Ezekiell  Bull  of  kingstown,  Alis  Rochester.  .  .Cordwinder 
..  .for. .  .Ninty   pounds    Currant    mony   of    new   Engand... 
payd  by  Joseph  Case  kings  town. .  .yeoman, ..  .all  my  farme 


232 

...in  the  Pettyquamscutt  purchase. .  .qt:.  .  .two  hundred  & 
sixty  Acres . .  .  bounded  on  the  South  by  Land  of  my  Brother 
Epharin  Bull,  Easterly  &  northerly  by  highways  westerly 
by  Undevided  Lands. .  .which. .  .Land  I  had  of  my  brother 
Jireth  bull  as... by  a  sale  baring  date  the  twenty  third  day 
of  January  i69i...with  all  timbr  woods  stones  waters... 
herbage  pastures  buildings  fencings  orchards  Gardens . .  .  one 
&  twentieth  day  of  November  1693... 
Wit.  Ezekiel  Bull 

Thomas  Starr 
his 

Benjamin  X  Clark 
mark 

John  Smith 
[414]     Samuell  &  Henry  Dyre  bind  them  selfes. 
...Samuell   Dyre   &   Henry   Dyre  boath   of    Newport. .  .doe 
bind    or   selves... in    the...sume    of    three   hundred    pounds 
starling  unto  our  father  William  Dyre  of   Newport... to  be 
levied  of  our  Lands  goods  &  Chattiells 

The  Condition  of  this ...  obligation  is  such  yt  if...  Samuell 
Dyre  &  Henry  Dyre  Shall  pay. .  .unto  their  Sister  Mary 
Dyre  the  Eldest  Daughter  of ..  .William  Dyre  Aportion  of 
One  hundred  pounds  starling  in  marchantable  pay  within  three 
years  After  the  death  of ..  .William  Provided. .  .houshold 
goods. .  .William  shall  order. .  .unto  her. .  .shall. .  .be. .  .De- 
ducted from  the...  one  hundred  pounds  f  urther . . .  obledge 
themselves. .  .to  pay. .  .fourty  pounds  Starling  unto  Elizabeth 
Dyre  the  second  Daughter  of .  . .  William  Dyre  when  shee 
Cometh  to  the  Age  of  Eighteen  years... 25th  day  of  July 
1670. . . 
Wit.     George  whittman  Samuell  Dyre 

George  Brown  Henry  Dyre 

[415]     Share  in  pitticomcutt  to  William  Heffernon. 
.  .  .John  Hull  Esq  Late  of  boston.  .  .William  Brenton  &  Ben- 
edict Arnold  Esq  John  porter  Samll  Wilbor  Samll.  Wilson  & 
Thomas  Mumford  Late  of  Rhoad  Island  purchased ...  Land 
— Called. .  .pitticomcott    purchas   which   purchasers   granted 


233 

...unto  severall  parsons ...  Whare  fore  wee  Samuell  Sewell 
And  hanah  his  wife  as  heir:  &  in  the  Right  of  sd  John  Hull 
Jaleel  Brenton  &  Peleg  Sanford  Executors ...  in  the  Right 
of.  .  .William  Brenton  Benedict  Arnold  &  Josah  Arnold  Ex- 
cecutors . , .  in  the  Right  of  sd  benedj  Arnold  Henry  Gardner 
in  behalfe  of  him  selfe  Brothers  &  Sisters  &  in  Right  of  sd 
John  porter  John  Wilbor...in  Right  of  said  Samll  Wilbor 
Thomas  Mumford.  .  .in  Right  of  sd  Thomas  Mumford  &  as 
Gardian  to  Jeames  wilson  heire  to  sd  Samll  Wilson  Wee . .  . 
doe  declare ...  that ...  as  share  was  granted  unto  William 
Hefternon  then  of  pitticomcott  three  hundred  Acres  of  Land 
by  the  first  purchasers  Above  named  for.  .  .seventeen  pounds 
. .  .payd. .  .for. .  .the  same,  Bounded  northerly  by  the  Lands 
of  Capt  John  f  ones  Easterly  partly  by  Land  of  William  Agers 
or  Assignes  &  Stephen  Northup  or  his  Assigncs  Southerly 
&  westerly  by  the  highway  which  three  hundred  Acres . . .  wee 
. .  .Alow. .  .unto. .  .William  Heflfernon.  .  .twelth  day  of  May 
. .  .  one  thousand  six  hundred  &■  ninty  two 
Wit. 

John  Green  Sam :  Sewall 

John  Pococke  Hannah  Sewall 

Boston  N  E  Novemb  Jahleel  Brenton 

28th   i6q3   Signed...  Josiah  Arnold 

by  Samuell  Sewall  &  Thomas  Mumford 

hanah  his  wife. .  .  Peleg  Sanford 

Benjamin  Gilliam  Benedict  Arnold 

Elizabeth  Sewall  Henry  X  Gardner 

his  marke 
Thomas  mumford 
as  Garden  to  the  heir 
of  Samll  Wilson 
John  Wilbor 
[416]     Thomas  &  Stephen  Cornell  to  George  Sison. 
...Thomas   And   Stephen     Cornell   of    Portsmouth.  .  .for.  .  . 
ninty  pounds  of  Currant  silver  mony  of  new  England. .  .payd 
...by  George  Sisson  of   Portsmouth. .  .Have. .  .sold. .  .Land 
. .  .in  the  township  of  Portsmouth. .  .twelve  Acres. .  .bounded 


234 

. . .  Southerly  partly  by  Land  of  John  Cooke  And  Partly  by 
Land  now  in  the  possestion  of  Lott  Strange  westerly  by  the 
highway  Notherly  by  Land  of  Anthony  Shaws  Easterly  by 
Land  of...  George  Sissons. .  .with  all. .  .dwelling  houses  out 
houses  woods. .  .Commons.  .  .second  day  of  Apriell. . .  1691 
Wit.  Thomas  Cornell 

Isack  Lawton  the  marke  of 

Giles  Slocom  Stephen  X  Cornell 

John  Yelthro  Hannah  X  Cornell 

hir  marke 
[417]      ...Thomas  Cornell  &  Stephen  Cornell  And  hannah 
the  wife  of  Stephen. .  .Acknowledg  this. . . 

Isaat  Lawton  Astant. 
[418]     John  Greene  to  George  Sisson. 

...John  Greene...  of  Warwicke. .  .In  the  year  1654  did  sell 
unto  mr  Thomas  Lawton  then  of  Portsmouth ...  six  hundred 
Acres  of  upland  at  or  About  Coweeset  which. .  .hee  hath. .  . 
by  A  deed  baring  date  Jun  the  5th  1674  to  George  Sisson  & 
his  wife  Sarah  Sisson  both  of  portsmoth. .  .And  George  Sis- 
son being  Willing. .  .to  Exchange  the  same  for  Aquarter  shear 
of  farme  Lands  &  to  Allowe  fourty  shillings  in  mony...I 
majo  John  Greene... in  Consideration  of  the  surrender  of 
the  sd  deeds  &  upland  of  six  hundred  Acres  &  fourty  shillings 
.  .  .  New  England  silver  mony  payd . .  .  have . .  .  sold  unto 
George  Sisson . . .  one  quarter  shear  of  farme . . .  six  hundred 
Acres. .  .being  one  eight  And  twentieth  part  of  seven  hole 
shears  Ordered  by  the  purchasers  of  Warwick.  .  .baring  date 
the  5th  of  March  1673  said  seven  hole  sheares  bounded  East- 
erly by  the  f  armes  of  Nachick  &  wequickaconuke  southerly  by 
the  north  Line  of  Cowesett  plantation  &  northerly  by  the 
north  Line  of  Warwick  purchas  onely  seven  shears  of 
meadow  Land . .  .  Layd  out  the  sd  quarter  shear  being  pt  of 
Awhole  quarter  Sheare. .  .given  mee  by  my  father  mr  John 
Green  Sen ...  Eleventh  day  of  may...  one  thousand  six  hun- 
dred ninty  &  three. .  . 


235 

Wit.  John  Greene 

Joseph  Cooke 
Garsham  Smith 
Major  John  Green  did ...  Acknowledge ...  deed 

Before  me  Giles  Slocum  Aste 
[420]     Joseph  Allin  to  Joseph  Hull. 

...Joseph  Allin  of  Darkmouth  in  the  County  of  bristoll... 
yeoman. .  .for.  .  .two  hundred  seventeen  pounds  fifteen  shill- 
ings . .  .  payd  of  Currant  mony  of  New  England  by  Joseph 
Hull  Late  of  Socomesett. .  .but  now  of  Kings  town  Alis 
Rochester. .  .yeoman. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .my  right. .  .in  the  pit- 
tiquamsett  purchas. .  .that  is... two  thirds  of  Atract...six 
hundred  &  twelve  Acres . . .  Lying  on  the  back  side  of  the 
ponds  so  Called. .  .Alls  two  thirds  of  Atract  of  Land  in  moto- 
nuk  neck  in  the  purchas  Aforesaid  Containing  three  hundred 
&  twelve  Ackers. .  .boath  which.  ,  .1  bought  of  Henry  Gard- 
ner &  John  Watson. .  .deed  of  sale  in  parchment. .  .baring 
date  the  twentieth  day  of  July  1692  Allso  all. .  .Land. .  .Lying 
to  the  westward  of  the  second  Sugr  lofe  hill  In  sd  pitticomcott 
purchas  which  containes  five  hundred  Acres.  .  .which. .  .1 
bought  of  Christopher  Allin  of  Little  Compton  by  Adeed  of 
Sale  in  parchment  Doth ...  Appeare ...  Eleventh  day  of  No- 
vembr  1693 
Wit.  Joseph  Allin. 

Abraham  Anthony 

Thomas  Wait 

John  Smith 
The  Seaventh  of  Novembr   1693.  .  .Joseph  Allin ...  Newport 
. . .  owned .  . .  deed .  . . 

Caleb  Carr  Ajt 
[422]  John  Watson  &  Henry  Gardner  to  Joseph  Allin. 
. .  .John  Watson  &  Henry  Gardner  of  Kings  town  alis  Roch- 
ester,..  .yeomen. .  .for. .  .seventy  seven  pounds  fifteen  shill- 
ings Currant  mony  of  New  England... by  Joseph  Allin  of 
Darkmouth  in  the  province  of  the  Mattetucetts . . .  yeoman . .  . 
Have. .  .sold. .  .two  thirds  of  Atract  of  Land  in  pittiguam- 
scott  purchas  in   Kingstown . . .  Lying  on  the  back   side  the 


236 

ponds,  so  Called,. .  .six  hundred  And  twelve  Akers...&  is 
in  width  one  hundred  seventy  &  seven  Rod. .  .bounded  East- 
wardly  by  Land  of  Thomas  Mumf ord . .  .  Southward  by  the 
pond  &  Westward  by  Land  belonging  to  the  heires. .  .of  Sam- 
uell  Willson  notherly  by  undevided  Lands .  .  .  with  the  beach 
And  ponds  to  the  southward ...  as  AUso  two  thirds  of . .  . 
Lands  In  Motonuck  Neck... which  qt:  three  hundred  & 
twelve  Acres. .  .bounded  Eastward  by  Land  of  Benedict 
Arnold  &c  Southward  on  Point  Judeth  ponds  so  Called  west- 
ward by  Lands  of  Capt  Samuell  Sowell  Northward  partly  by 
Land  Layd  out  &  partly  by  Lands  undevided. .  .with  all... 
trees  Swamps  beaches. .  .twenty  Eight  day  of  July  one  thous- 
and six  hundred  ninty  two. .  . 

Wit.  John  Watson 

William  X  Gardner  Henry  Gardner 

his  marke 
George  X     Gardner 

his  marke 
Ephram  X  Gardner 

his  marke 
Christopher  Allin  to  Joseph  Allin 
Christopher  Allin  of  Little  Comton.  .  .yeoman.  .  .for. .  .One 
hundred  &  fourty  pounds. .  .payd  of  Currant  mony  of  new 
England  by  Joseph  Allin  of  Darkmouth.  .  .yeoman. .  .have 
.  .  .  sold ...  all  yt  his  f  arme ...  in  the  pittquomcotit  purchas  on 
the  westward  of  the  second  suger  hill  so  Called  qt  five  hundred 
Acres. .  .Bounded. .  .westward  partly  by  Ahigh  way  of  tenn 
Rod  wide  betwene  sd  Land  &  the  Greatt  pond  &  partly  by 
Land  not  yett  Layd  out  Northward  by  Land  formerly  Layd 
out  to  John  Gould  Eastward  by  Lands  Layd  out  Southward 
partly  by  Apond  &  partly  by  undevided  Lands. .  .Christopher 
Allin  is  Cabable  to  grant  by. .  .deed. .  .from  Ralph  Chapman 
baring  date  the  24th  day  of  May  1693  said  Chapman  having 
bought  the  said  Land  of  John  hart  marrino. .  .baring  date 
the  loth  day  of  Desemb  1688.  .  .which  Land  John  hart  had.  .  . 
of  his  mother  Freeborn  hart  who  purchased  the  some  of  the 
first  proprieters  of  sd  pittquomscott  Lands. .  .by. .  .  Adeed. . . 


237 

baring  date  the  20  day  of  Apriell  1674. .  .  19th  day  of  Septemb 
1693... 

Wit.  Christopher  Allin 

William  Fleetwood 
Joseph  Devell 
John  Smith 
[425]     William  Breniton  etc.  to  freeborn  hart. 
.  .  .three  &  twentieth  day  of  (torn)  . .  .  1674  Betwene  William 
Brenton  John  Hull  Benedict  Arnold  John  Porter  Samll  Wil- 
bor   Samll  Wilson  &  Thomas   mumford  of   the  one  part  & 
freeborn  hart  Executrix  &  widdow  of  Thomas  hart  Late  of 
newport. .  .deceased. .  .for. .  .six  &  twenty  pounds  starling. . . 
payd...by  freeborn  hart. .  .wee. .  .have  granted ...  five  hun- 
dred Acres ...  of  which  wee . .  .  are  Joynt  purchassers . .  .  Lying 
About  foure  miles  from  pittiquamscott  Rock  south  west  being 
near  the  place  Called  the  durty  swampe  bounded... on  the 
west  partly  by  Ahighway  tenn  Rods   wide  betwene  the   sd 
Land  heareby  granted  &  the  greatt  pond  &  partly  by  other 
Land  not...yett  Layd  out  &  on  the  north  by  Other  Land 
not  Layd  Out...onely  Exsepted  that  if  at  Any  time  heare 
After    Any    mineralls.  .  .be    dyscovered    in.  .  .the. .  .Land. . . 
minerall  shall  be  devided  Into   Eight  equall  sheers. .  .which 
sd  Land. .  .was  granted  to. .  .Thomas  hart. .  .in  his  Last  will 
...Disposed   of...  unto   hir.  .  .freeborn     hart.  .  .&   After  hir 
Deceas  to. .  .thomas  hart  son  of  the  sd  thomas  harte. . . 
Wit.  Benedict  Arnold 

Jireth  Bull  John  Hull 

Richard  baily  John  Porter 

Joseph  mory  Samll  Wilbor 

Samuell  holmes  Samll  Wilson 

William  Coldman  Thomas  mumford 

The  first  bounds  south  in  the  Above . . . 
being  omitted. .  .that  is...  partly  by 
Apond  &  partly  by  A  seader  swampe. 
[426]  Nathll  Coddington  to  William  Edwards. 
. .  .nathaniell  Coddington  of  newport. .  .doe. .  .release. . . 
title  unto  the  Land. .  .sold  unto  William  Edwards. .  .my  hand 
&  seall  this  13  of  August  1694 


238 

Wit.  Nathll  Coddin^on 

George  Lawton 

Joseph  Nicholson 

John  Smith 
Newport ...  Novembr  6th  1694. .  .Nathll  Codding     Acknowl- 
edged . . , deed . . . 

Benedict  Arnold  Ast : 
William  Edwards  to  Robert  Ayres. 
...William  Edwards... In  consideration  of  thirty  pounds... 
recived  of    Robert    Ayres    of    Newport ...  Carpenter  doe... 
make  over  the  with  in  mentioned  deed  with  all  the  Lands . . . 
thirteenth  of  August  1694. . .  The  marke  of 

...deed  of  sale  William  X  Edwards 

Recorded    in    the 

402  page    of  this 

book    signed    by 

Robert  Euers. 
[427]  John  Williams  Acquitts  John  Rathbon. 
...John  WiUiams  Attorney  to  John  Green  Attorney  to  the 
Gardians  of  the  Children  of  the  Late  mr  John  Alcock  of 
Roxbury. .  .And  as  An  Executor  to  the  Estate...  by  marry- 
ing Eldest  Daughter  of  the  sd  Alcock. .  .doe  Acquitt. .  .John 
Rathbon. .  .from  the  payment  of  thirty  pounds  which  hath 
bene  Recived  Eleven  pounds  five  shillings  of  the  sd  Alcock 
...And  the  Rest  by  thomas  Terry  &  myself e... is  in  full 
payment  of  Atwo  And  thirtieth  part  of  Block  Island  And 
twelve  Acres  &  Ahalfe  of  Land  which  was  to  be  Deducted 
out  of  the  two  And  thirtieth  part. .  .Above  sd  which. .  .John 
Rathbon  bought  of  my  father  mr  John  Alcock... as  by  an 
Account  upon  the  block  Island  book  of  Accounts  5th  day  of 
June  1672. . . 

Wit.       EmanuU  Woolley  John  Williams 

John  X  Guniell 
his  marke 
New  shoram  Octobr  loth  1682 

John  Gunniell  Attested  to  the  Above . . . 

Jeames  Sands 
Simon  Ray 


239 

[428]  Thomas  Mumford  to  Samson  Batty. 
...Thomas  mumford  of  kings  town. .  .for. .  .fourty  two 
pounds  Currant  mony  of  new  England. .  .payd. .  .by  Samson 
Batty  of  Jeames  town...  have  sold. .  .Land. .  .in  the...pitti- 
comcott  purchas. .  .And  is  the  Eight  Lott  in  the  Plott. .  .three 
hundred  Acres. .  .bounded. .  .East. .  .by  Land...  of  John 
Thomas  South. .  .by  undevided  Lands  westerly  by  the. .  .Line 
of  the  sd  pitticomcott  purchas  North... by  Land... of  John 
Wilbore. .  .twentieth  forth  day  of  Octobr. .  .one  thousand  six 
hundred  ninity  &  three 

Wit.  Thomas  Mumford 

his  marke  Abigail  mumford 

John  X  Thomas  her  X  marke 

John  Pocock 

Nathll  Crockford 
...Thomas     mumford. .  .Acknowledged. .  .deed     this      25th 
8  mo  1693 

John  Easton  Cover 
[429]  Thomas  Mumford  to  John  Thomas. 
...Thomas  Mumford  of  Kingstown. .  .for. .  .fourty  two 
pounds  new  England  Currant  mony..  .payd  by  John  Thomas 
of  Jeames  Town. .  .Have, .  .solde. .  .Land. .  .in  the. .  .pitti- 
comcott purchas ...  And  is  the  tenth  Lott...  three  hundred 
Acres . . .  bounded . . .  north ...  by  the  Greatt  pond  East ...  by 
undevided  Lands  &  Southerly  And  westerly  by  Samson  Bat- 
ties  Land ...  twenty  forth  day  of  Octob...one  thousand  six 
hundred  ninty  &  three 

Wit.  Thomas  Mumford 

the  marke  of  Abigail  X  mumford 

Samson  X  Batty    -,  marke 

John  Pococke 

Nathll  Crockford 
...thomas  mumford. .  .Acknowledged. .  .deed  this  25th  day 

of  October  1695 

John  Easton  Cover 
[432]     Ralph  Chapman  to  Christopher  Allin. 
...twenty  forth  Day  of  may. ..  1693. .  .Ralph  Chapman   of 


240 

Newport. .  .shipwright    for...  One    hundred     &    ten    pounds 
Currant  mony  of  New  England.,  .payd  by  Christopher  Allin 

of      Little      Cumpton . . .  yewman . .  .  hath . .  .  sold all ...  his 

farme  &  tract  of  Land. .  .in  pitticomcott  purchas  on  the  west- 
ward of  Suger  Lofe  hill  Containing  five  hundred  Acres. .  . 
bounded  West  ward  partly  by  Ahigh  way  of  tenn  Rod  wide 
yt  Lyeth  betwene  sd  Land  &  the  Greatt  pond  &  partly  by 
Lands  Not  yett  Layd  Out  northerly  by  Land's  formerly  Layd 
out  to  John  Gould  Eastward  by  Lands  Layd  Out  Southward 
partly  by  Appnd  &  partly  by  undevided  Lands .  .  .  Ralph  Chap- 
man is  Capable  to  grant  by. .  .  Adeed. .  .from  John  hart... 
date  the  tenth  day  of  Desember  in. .  .1688. .  .Except  which  is 
Reserved  in  the  Originall  deed  from  the  proprieters  to  free- 
born  hart  Mother  of  the  sd  John  hart. .  .baring  Date. .  .20th 
day  of  Apriell. . .  1674. . . 
Wit.  Ralph  Chapman 

Rog  Goulding  Abigail  X  Chapman 

James  Larkin  hir  marke 

John  Smith 

The  24   of    May    1693, .  .Ralph    Chapman   Owned...  deed 
before  mee  Caleb  Carr  Ast. 

[434]  Ralph  Chapman  to  Giles  Slocom. 
...Ralph  Chapman  of  newport.  .  .Shipwright.  .  .for.  .  .foure 
hundred  &  five  pounds  Currant  mony  of  New  England . . . 
payd  by  Giles  Slocom  of  the  township  of  Portsmouth.  .  .Gent. 
.  .  .Have.  .  .sold.  .  .my  Farme.  .  .known  by  the  name  of  with- 
ington''s  Farme ...  in  the  township  of  Newport .  . .  One  hun- 
dred And  twenty  Acres. .  .bounded. .  .Begining  at  A  markt 
Maple  tree  at  the  pen  fold  gapp  &  so  Extending  south  East- 
erly to  wards  the  highway  that  Leads  from  Newport  to  ports- 
mouth  About  One  hundred  rode  And  from  thence  Allmost 
paralell  to  the  sd  highway  to  the  petetion  Line  betwene  sd 
Newport  and  the  town  of  Portsmouth  Ninty  Nine  Rode  to  A 
marked  stake  which  is  with  in  Sixteen  Rode  of  An  Oake  tree 

in  Said  petition  Line  Marked And  so  from  sd  stake 

Along  sd  petition  Line  till  it  meets  with  Lott  Stranges  Line 
One  hundred  &  thirty  Rode  &  so  Along  to  his  Corner  tree  in 


241 

the  swampe  Sixty  Rodes  And  from  thence  fourty  foure  rods 
to  the  highway  that  Leads  to  George  Lawtons  Mill  &  from 
thence  south  southwest  to  wards  Richard  Dunes  One  hun- 
dred And  three  rodds  to  A  small  Oake  markt  not  far  from 
the  highway  &  from  thence  Along  by  sd  way  to  the  first 
markt  maple  tree  sixty  six  rods , . .  wch . . .  Land  so  bounded 
was  Layd  out  to  William  Withington  Deceased  by  Order  of 
the  Quarter  meetting  of.,  .town  of  Newport  the  seventh  day 
of  October  one  thousand  six  hundred  seventy  foure:  And.  . . 
Confirmed  to  him  by  the  town  Gierke... 6th  day  of  August 
1 675...  with  all. .  .trees. .  .salts. .  .buildings  Orchards  gar- 
dens. .  .thirteenth  day  of  January  1693-4. . . 
Wit.  Ralph  Ghapman 

Nicholas  Garr  Abigaill  Ghapman 

George  Bradly 

Fabuary  24th  1693-4 
...Ralph    Ghapman    And    Abigail    his    wife... Owned    the 
Above . . . 

Galeb  Garr  Ast 
[436]     John  Wood  to  Thomas  Fry. 

...John  wood...  of  Est  greenwich ...  for ...  twenty  five 
pounds  Gurrant  mony  of  new  England . . .  payd ...  by  thomas 
Fry...  of  Above  sd  town. .  .have. .  .sold. .  .my  Dwelling 
hous  &  hous  Lott  of  Land ...  in  the  Above  sd  town  of  Est 
greenwich. .  .being  in  number  the  ninteenth  Lott  in  the  first 
devition. .  .it  being  tenn  Acres. .  .bounded. .  .on  the  south- 
west Gorner  being  Abuttenwood  tree  &  from  thence  twenty 
rod  west  an  by  north  to  A  walnutt  bush  from  thence  Eighty 
rodd  to  Ablack  Oake  tree  And  from  thence  twenty  rodd  to 
An  Oake  tree  And  from  thence  Eighty  Rod  to  the  first  men- 
tioned boundree  being  Abutton  wood  tree. .  .twenty  second 
day  of  march... one  thousand  six  hundred  Ninty  three  or 
foure 
Wit.  John  X  Wood 

Thomas  Green  Junr  his  marke 

John  Spencer  Alse  X  Wood 

hir  marke 


242 

[437]     Thomas  Fry  to  Thomas  Fry. 

...Thomas  Fry  of  Newport.  .  .Glausier.  .  .unto  my  Eldest 
son  Thomas  Fry  Glaiessur  Living  in  Debtford  Alis  Este 
Greenwith.  .  .have  Granted...  my  Right...  unto  Land  in  the 
township  of  sd  deptford.  .  .which.  .  .Came  to  mee  by  petition 
And  purchas...by  the  Genii  Assembley  of  Rhoad-Island.  . . 
two  hundred  Acres.  .  .Eleventh  Day  of  March. ..  1688-9 
Wit.  Thomas  Fry 

Mikell  X  Spencer 
his  mark 

Mars  X  Wascoatt 
hir  mark 

John  Heath 
[438]  Pettaquamscet  Lands  to  Samuell  Sewall. 
. . .  Jahleel  Brenton  and  Peleg  Sanford  Esq  Benedict  Arnold 
Esq  Henry  Gardner  John  Wilbor  &  Thomas  Mumford  as 
will  on  his  owne  behalfe  as  Gardian  to  Jeames  Wilson,  heires 
...of  Wiliam  Brenton  &  Benedict  Arnold  Esqr  John  porter 
Samuell  Wilbor  Samuell  Wilson  &  thomas  Mumford  Late  of 
Rhoad  Island  Deceased . . .  whareas  John  Hull  Esq  Late  of 
boston ...  Deceased ...  with  william  Brenton  Benedict  Arnold 
John  Porter  Samuell  Wilbor  Samuell  Wilson  &  Thomas 
Mumford  did  purchas .  . .  Land . . .  Called .  . .  Pettaquamscet 
purchas  And  whareas  A  hows  Lott  of  f  ourty  Acres . . .  And 
A  farme  Adjoining  thare  to:  saving  the  highway,  of  foure 
hundred  &  sixty  Acres .  . .  runing  to  Socatuckett  River  with 
A  Certain  quantie:  of  March  near  Or  Adjoining  to  the  sd 
hous  Lott  Lately  in  the  Occupation  of  Robert  Hanna  was 
Layd  Out  &  Assigned  to... John  Hull  Esq... And  whareas 
A  Lott  in  the  tract  of  Land .  . .  Called  the  thousand  Acres  qt 
two  hundred  Acres  No.  two :  And  two  Lotts  in  point  Judeth 
Neck  Lying  together  In  the  most  Southerly  part  of  sd  neck 
Containing  six  hundred  Acres .  . .  No.  six  &  seven,  And  A 
Lott  at  Mattonuck  Neck  Containing  three  hundred  Acres  No. 
six.  And  A  lott  of  six  hundred  Acres.  .  .Lying  to  the  west- 
ward of  point  Judeth  ponds  &  said  Mattonuck  neck  No.  two, 
And  A  Lott  qt  one  thousd  Acres . . .  Lying  at  the  north  west 


243 

part  of  the  purchas  Adjoynino^  to  the  Land  of  Samuell 
Albroug-h  No.  foure,  And  two  more  Lotts  qt  three  hundred 
Acres  Apeace  Adjoyning  unto  And  neare  the  greatt  Pond  in 
the  westermost  part  of  the  purchas  No.  foure  &  six,  & 
Another  Lott  of  march  An  Beach  Lying  to  the  westward  of 
point  Judeth  Breach  No.  one,  begining  as  sd  Breach  And  A 
lott...  on  An  Island  In  point  Judeth  Ponds ...  Called  Mum- 
fords  Island  being  A  seventh  part  of  sd  Island  No.  foure. 
Recking  from  the  north  to  South  whard  In  Like  mannoer. . . 
Assigned ...  to  Samuell  Sewall  of  Boston  And  Hannah  his 
wife  Daughter  &  heire  of.  .  .John  Hull  Late  purchasser.  .  .of 
John  porter  as  by  A  plott  under  the  hand  of  John  Smith  Sur- 
veyar  of  sd  Lands.  .  .Jahleel  Brenton  Peleg  Sanford  Benedict 
Arnold  Henry  Gardner  John  Wilbor  &  Thomas  Mumford  doe 
..  .Confirm.  .  .unto.  .  .Samuell  Sewall  &  hannah  his  wife... 
seventh  day  of  September. .  .One  Thousand  six  hundred 
Ninty  &  three.  . . 
Wit. 

Ephraim  Turner  Benedict  Arnold  Ast : 

John  Smith  Peleg  Sanford 

Newport. .  .September  7th  1693      Benedict  Arnold 
Peleg  Sanford  Esqr  John  Wilbor      John  Wilbor 
Thomas  Mumford  &  Henry  Gar-      Thomas  Mumford  as 
dener  Acknowledged .  . .  Gardian  to  Jeames 

Wilson 

Thomas  Mumford 
Henry  X  Gardner 
his  marke 
[440]     Nathanaell  Niles  to  Samuell  Sewall. 
...twenty  Third  day  of   July... one  thousand   six  hundred 
ninty  &  two. .  .Betwene  Nathaniell  Niles  of  Block  Island... 
yeoman  on  the  One  part  And  Samuell  Sewall  of  Boston .  . . 
Esq  of  the  Other  part.  .  .Nathaniell  Niles  for.  .  .One  hundred 
&  twenty  five  pounds  Currant  mony  of  new  England  Recived 
of...  Samuell  Sewall.  .  .Hath.  .  .sold.  .  .parciell  of  upland... 
in  block  Island.  .  .Sixty  foure  Acres.  .  .bounded  westerly  by 
the  high  way  southerly  upon  the  Land  of  John  Rodman  East- 


244 

erly  upon  A  frech  pond.  .  .Called.  .  .Neales  Pond  Northerly 
with  Land  of  Robart  Guttridge.  .  .Allso  One  Other  peice.  .  .of 
Land... in  Block  Island...  at  A  place. .  .Called  Corne  Neck 
qt  upwards  of  fifty  Acres  Bounded  Southerly  with  Land  of 
Joshua  Raymant  Easterly  &  Northerly  with  A  ditch  partly 
with  the  Breach,  And  partly  with  ponds  westerly 
Wit.  Nathanaell  Niles 

Isa :  Addington 

Addington  Davenport 

Edward  Turfrey 

John  Wally. 
Boston  July  23th  1692 
. .  .Nathaniell  Niles. .  .Acknowledged  this. . . 

John  Joylife 
Peter  Sergant 
[442]     Elizabeth  Winslow  to  Nathaniell  Coddington. 
...Elizabeth    Winslow    ofi  boston. .  .widdow.  .  .whareas    my 
father  Edward  Hutchinson  of  boston .  . .  Gent :  deceased  &  in 
. .  .his  Last  will. .  .date  the  ninteenth  day  of  August  1675.  . . 
did.  .  .bequeath  in  the  words  following  Item.  .  .unto  my  son 
Elisha  my  Daughters  Elizabeth  Winslow  Ann  Dyre  &  Susanna 
Hutchinson. .  .all  the  rest  of  my  Lands  boath  at  Narrogan- 
sett  as  Also  my  Island . . .  Called  Round  Island  or  Hutchin- 
sons  Island  And  All  Other  Lands  goods   debts  Hous  hold 
Stufe  plate.  .  .1.  .  .Elizabeth  Winslow  for.  .  .sixty  five  pounds 
Currant  mony  of  New  England ...  payd  by  Nathaniell  Cod- 
dington of   Newport.  .  .marcht.  .  .Have.  .  .sold.  .  .my.  .  .share 
of   Land.  .  .in.  .  .boston  neck ...  Butted   Easterly  on   A   cove 
westerly  on  Pitticomcott  Lands  Northerly  And  Southerly  on 
the  Lands  given  to  the  Executor  of  my  fathers  will. .  .twenty 
seventh  day  of  March  1694.  . . 
Wit.  Elizabeth  Winslow 

Mary  Dill 

Mary  Dill  Junr. 

Newport. .  .28th  March  1694  Elizabeth  Winslow  of  Boston 
Acknowledged . . . 

Giles  Slocum  Ast : 


245 

[444]  Mary  Phips  to  Stephen  Mumford  &  Robert  Ayares. 
...Dame  Mary  phips  wife  And  Attorney  of...Sr.  WilHam 
phips  have ...  received  of  the ...  Mortgagers  Stephen  mum- 
ford  And  Robart  Ayares... One  hundred  And  fifty  pounds 
Currant  mony  of  New  England. .  .to  the  use  of  my.  .  .hus- 
band wch  with  former  payments ...  dos  Compleatt .  . .  the .  . . 
sume  of\  three  hundred  pounds.  .  .doe.  .  .release.  .  .unto.  .  . 
Stephen  Mumford  &  Robart  Ayres.  .  .the  farme  &  Lands.  . . 
thirtyeth  day  of  November  1694.  . . 
Wit.  Mary  Phips 

John  White  The  Lady  mary  Phips . .  . 

Tho:  Hutchinson  Acknowledged.  . . 

John  Forster 
Above...  hath  Referance  to  A  deed  of   Mortgage.  .  .in  this 
book  in  the  357 :  358-359  &  360  pages. . . 
[445]     John  Surkett  to  Thomas  Gould. 

...John  Surkett  for.  .  .Valluable  Consideration.  .  .payd  by 
Thomas  Gould  of  newport.  .  .doe. .  .Assigne.  .  .all  the  Lands 
.  . .  with  all  the  housses  out  houses  &  barnes  &  buildings .  .  . 
One  And  thirtieth  day  of.  .  -July.  .  .one  thousand  six  hundred 
ninty  six 
Wit.  the  marke  of 

William  Greenman  John  X  Surkett 

John  Yelthro : 

John   Surkett  Acknowledged . .  .  Newport  first  day  August 
1696 

Walter  Clarke  Gover 
The  Above.  .  .hath  Reference  to  A  deed  from  Daniell  Gould 
to  John  Surkett.  .  .330  &  331  pages  of  this  boak.  .  . 


246 


ERRATA 

Page  Line 

17  19  and  24  read  "Will"  instead  of  "Witt." 

47  27  read  "1658"  instead  of  "1608." 

49  22  read  "Sacconet"  instead  of  "Sarronet." 

66  7  add  date  "1665". 

73  28  add  name  "Peleg  Sanford." 

127  20  read  "past"  instead  of  "part." 

230  31  and  32  read  "Hall"  instead  of  "Hull." 

113  9  read  "myantanamy"  instead  of  "myaptanamy." 


INDEX 

Acres,  John  from  Perry,  Thomas        Deed-1670 23 

Acres,  John  to    Williams,   John        Receipt-1672 23 

Albro,  John    &    Lawton,    George    from    Clarke,    Capt.    Thomas 

Deed-1677      109 

Alcock,  John        Inventory-1677 122 

Alcock,  John  heirs  of  to  Rathbon,  John        Receipt-1672 238 

Alcock,  John  to  Rodman,  John        Deed-1687    202 

Alcock,  John  to  Wharton,  Philip        Deed-1686  203 

Alcock,  John  to  Williams,  John        Power  of  Attorney-1668 23 

Alderman  from  Mamamutt        Deed-1683    175 

Allen,  Matthew  to  Hudlestone,  Valentine        Deed-1679 132 

Allen,  William  &  Rathbon,  John  to  Sirkett,  John        Deed-1687...  205 

AUin,  Christopher  to  Allin,  Joseph        Deed-1674   236 

Allin,  Christopher  from  Chapman,  Ralph        Deed-1693 239 

Allin,  Joseph  from  Allin,  Christopher        Deed-1674   236 

Allin,  Joseph  to    Hull,    Joseph        Deed-1693 235 

Allin,  Joseph  from  Watson,  John  &  Gardner,  Henry        Deed-1692    235 

Allin,  Jedidiah  from  Almy,  Job        Deed-1683 174 

Allis,  John  to  Neales,  Henry        Deed-1685 192 

Almy,  Christopher,  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1681 155 

Almy,  Job  to  Allin,  Jedidiah        Deed-1683   174 

Almy,  Job  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1681 154 

Almy,  John  from  Dunham,  Samuel        Deed-1668  36 

Almy,  John  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Assignment  of  deed-1671 34 

Almy,  John  to  Lawton,   Thomas        Deed-1671    35 

Almy,  John  to  Lawton,   Thomas        Deed-1671    36 

Almy,  John  to  Lawton,   Thomas        Deed-1671    37 

Almy,  John  to  Lawton,   Thomas        Deed-1671    38 

Almy,  John  &  Lawton,  Thomas        Agreement-1673 46 

Almy,  John  from  Morton,    Thomas        Deed-1668    34 

Almy,  John  from  Richard,  John        Deed-1671    37 

Almy,  John  from  Ringe,  Andrew        Deed-1668    35 

Almy,  John  from  Southworth,  Thomas        Deed-1668 34 

Almy,  John  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1675    107 

Almy,  William        Will-1676 103 

Andrews,  Samuel        Protest-1677 101 

Anthony,  Joseph  from  Bulger,  Richard        Deed-1674 116 

Anthony,  John  to  Tew,  Richard        Deed-1642 64 

Appleton,  Samuel  from  Paine,  John        Deed-1663 110 

Aquinaumpau  to  Gould,  Thomas,  Deed-1660 29 


II 

Arnold,  Benedict     from   Cachanaquoant        Deed-1658    67 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  from  Kaskottape        Deed-1659 68 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  to   Clarke,  William        Deed-1674 ill 

Arnold,  Benedict  &    Coddington,    William    from    Cagananaquoant 

Deed-1657 67 

Arnold,  Benedict,  from   Cranston,   John   &   Carr,   Caleb        Deed- 
1659  200 

Arnold,  Benedict  to  Goulding,  Roger  &  Penelope        Deed-1676...  105 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn        Deed-1674 237 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  to  Hazard,  Robert        Deed-1671 12 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  to  HeflFernon,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Arnold,  Benedict  to  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1673 86 

Arnold,  Benedict,  Governor,  versus  Newport,  town  of        1671....     85 

Arnold,  Benedict  to  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1673 199 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  from  Quisaquance        Deed-1659 68 

Arnold,  Benedict  et  al.  to  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1693 242 

Arnold,  Josiah  et  al.  to  Hefifernon,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Arnold,  Stephen  from   Arnold,   William        Deed-1663 77 

Arnold,  Stephen  from  Carpenter,  Joseph        Deed-1674 50 

Arnold,  Stephen  from  Naw-naw-nanten-new        Deed-1674 78 

Arnold,  Stephen  from  Rhodes,  Zachary        Deed-1663 78 

Arnold,  Stephen  from   Sayles,  John        Deed-1659 77 

Arnold,  William  to  Arnold,  Stephen        Deed-1663 77 

Atherton,  Jonathan  Jto   Smith,  Richard        Deed-1673 31 

Awawsunks  et  al.  to  Barker,  James  &  Carr,  Caleb        Deed-1674.  .49,  53 

Ayres,  Robert  from  Edwards,  William        Deed-1694 238 

Ayres,  Robert  &  Mumford,  Stephen  from  Walley,  John        Deed- 

1687 208 

Ayres,  Robert  &  Mumford,  Stephen  to  Phips,  Sir  William        Deed- 

1687 213 

Badcocke,  James        Will-1679    136 

Baily,  John  to    Briggs,   John        Deed-1687 210 

Baily,  John  from  Lake,  David        Deed-1687/8 216 

Baily,  Richard    &   Terry,    Joseph    from    Smith,    Richard        Deed- 

1671/2 31 

Barker,  Wm.  from  Loveday,  Thomas        Power  of  attorney-1671 . .     19 

Barker,  James,  Sr.     Land  Recorded-1675 83 

Barker,  James  &   Carr,   Caleb    from   Awawsunks   et  al.        Deed- 
1674  49, 53 

Barker,  James  from  Easton,  Nicholas        Deed-1674 79 

Barker,  James  from  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1662 16 

Barker,  James  &  Smith,  Elisha        Agreement-1675   92 

Barker,  James '&  Smith,  Edward        Bounds  changed-1657 48 

Barker,  James  to  Tew,  Richard        Deed-1665 66 


Ill 

Barker,  Joseph  to  Turner,  Lawrence        Deed-1688 212 

Barnes,  John  et~al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Bartlett,  Benjamin  from  Nash,  Samuel        Deed-1666 -..  146 

Bartlett,  Robert  to  Burge,  Thomas        Deed-1670 140 

Barton,  Benjamin  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Barton,  Susanah  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Batty,  Samson  from  Mumford,  Thomas        Deed-1693 239 

Billing,  Samuel  from  Robinson,  Edward        Deed-1658 47 

Billing,  Seaborn  from  Tew,  Richard        Deed- 84 

Blackmor,  James  &  Bukman,  John  from  Inman,  Edward        Deed- 

1672 21 

Blackmor,  James  &  Bukman,  John  from  Inman,  Edward  &  Mowry, 

John        Deed-1672 21,  22 

Boomer,  Matthew        Land  Recorded-1676 95 

Boomer,  Matthew  to  Browne,  George        Deed-1676 96 

Boomer,  Matthew  from  Brightman,  Henry        Deed-1676/7 122 

Boomer,  Matthew  to  Reade,  John        Deed-1677 122 

Boomer,  Matthew  from  Stevens,  Henry        Deed-1676 96 

Boomer,  Matthew  from  Williams,  Owen        Indenture-1658 76 

Borden,  John  from  Hodges,  Henry        Deed-1680-81 197 

Borden,  John  from    Holloway,    Mialachi        Deed-1680 196 

Borden,  John  from   Hoskins,  John        Deed-1680 196 

Borden,  Matthew  from  Manchester,  Thomas        Deed-1682 170 

Bourne,  Thomas  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Bowne,  Andrew  to  Lawton,  George        Deed-1687 206 

Bradford,  Alice  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Deed-1668 ,. 33 

Brayton,  Francis  from  Burton,   Stephen        Deed-1671 52 

Brayton,  Francis  from  Brenton,  William        Deed-1650 116 

Brenton,  Jahleel    to  Browne,  Joseph        Deed-1676 91 

Brenton,  Jahleel  et  al.   to.  Heffernon,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Brenton,  Jahleel  et  al.  to  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1693 242 

Brenton,  Jahleel  et  al.  from  Throckmorton,  John        Deed-1687...  209 

Brenton,  William        Will-1674 60 

Brenton,  William  to  Brayton,  Francis        Deed-1650   116 

Brenton,  William,  to  Browne,  Joseph        Deed-1674   50 

Brenton,  William  et  al.  from  Kaskottape        Deed-1659 68 

Brenton,  William  from  Clarke,  Walter        Deed-1657 70 

Brenton,  William  et  al.  to  Clarke,  William        Deed-1674 Ill 

Brenton,  William  to  Ginings,  Thomas        Deed-1659 48 

Brenton,  William  froxn   Gould,   Thomas        Deed-1675 83 

Brenton,  William  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn        Deed-1674 237 

Brenton,  William  et  al.  to   Hazard,   Robert        Deed-1671 12 

Brenton,  William  from    Hutchinson,    Elisha    &    Hannah        Deed- 
1670   135 


IV 

Brenton,  William  et  al.    from    Quisaquance        Deed-1659 68 

Brenton,  William  to  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1670 73 

Brenton,  William  to  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1674 ^. 74 

Brenton,  William  to  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1679 136 

Brenton,  William  from  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1685 186 

Brenton,  William  from  Walley,  John        Deed-1685 186 

Brenton,  William  to  Walley,  John        Deed-1685     187 

Brenton,  William  to   Ward,   Thomas        Deed-1686 189 

Brewster,  Wrastlin  lo  Durfee,  Thomas        Deed-1678 116 

Brightman,  Henry  to  Boomer,  Mathew        Deed-1676/7 122 

Brightman,  Henry  to  Greenhill,  Daniel        Deed-1683 220 

Brightman,  Henry  from   Mosher,   Hugh        Deed-1689 225 

Brightman,  Henry  from  Sisson,  George        Deed-1681 172 

Briggs,  Hannah  from  Fisher,  Edward        Deed-1677 157 

Briggs,  Nathaniel  &  Wharton,  Phillip  to  Rodman,  John        Deed- 

1684 204 

Brigs,  John  to  Brigs,  Thomas        Deed-1678 121 

Brigs,  John  from    Dunham,   John        Deed-1662 176 

Brigs,  John  Senr.  to  Brigs,  John  Junr.        Deed-1670 140 

Brigs,  John  from  Baily,  John     Deed-1687 210 

Brigs,  John  Senr.  &  Brigs,  John  Junr.        Agreement-1679 143 

Brigs,  John  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Deed-166S 34 

Brigs,  John  from   Smith,  Richard        Deed-1672 49 

Brigs,  Thomas   from   Brigs,  John        Deed-1678 121 

Brinley,  Francis        Land   Recorded-1679    126 

Brinley,  Francis  from  Easton,  John        Receipt-1687 219 

Brinley,  Francis  to  Mays,  William        Deed-1673/4 226 

Brinley,  William  &  Coggeshall,  John        Orders  of  Council-1677. . .   104 

Brookes,  Thomas  from  Read,  William        Deed-1687 200 

Browne,  George  from  Boomer,  Matthew        Deed-1676 96 

Browne,  Jeremiah  &  Mary  to  Cooke,  John        Deed-1688 211 

Browne,  Capt.  John  from  Pocoke,  John        Deed-1683 171 

Browne,  Joseph    from    Brenton,   Jahleel        Deed-1676 91 

Browne,  Joseph  from    Brenton,    William        Deed-1674 59 

Browne,  Mary  &  Jeremiah  to  Cooke,  John        Deed-1688 211 

Browne,  William        Land   Recorded-1678    115 

Browne,  William  from  Rainbrow,  Edward        Deed-1672 91 

Browne,  William  to  Sisson,  George        Deed-1671/2 159 

Brownell,  George  from  Hazard,  Robert        Deed-1671 13 

Brownell,  Thomas  from  Warner,  John        Deed-1677 144 

Browning,  William  to  Manchester,  Thomas        Deed-1684/5 179 

Frowning,  William  to  Fish,  Robert        Deed-1687/8 213 

Brewster,  Love  et  al.  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 


Bryant,  Richard  et  al.  from  Throckmorton,  John        Deed-1687.,,  209 

Buckland,  Benjamin  et  al.  from  Inman,  Edward        Deed-1672 22 

Bucman,  John  &  Blackmor,  James  from  Inman,  Edward        Deed- 

1672 21 

Bucman,  John  &  Blackmor,  James  from  Inman,  Edward  &  Mowry, 

John        Deed-1673  .  , 21,  22 

Bulger,  Richard  to  Anthony,  Joseph        Deed-1674 116 

Bull,  Ephraim  et  al.  from  Bull,  Jireh        Deed-1685 183 

Bull,  Ezekiel  et  al.  from  Bull,    Jireh        Deed-1685 183 

Bull,  Ezekiel  to  Case,  Joseph        Deed-1693 231 

Bull,  Henry  et  al.  from  Bull,  Jireh        Deed-1685 •  183 

Bull,  Jireh  to  Bull,  Henry  et  al.        Deed-1685 183 

Burge,  Thomas  to  Cooke,  John        Deed-1671 30 

Burge,  Thomas  from  Bartlett,  Robert        Deed-1670 140 

Burge,  Thomas  to  Ward,   Thomas        Deed-1671    106 

Burge,  Thomas  to  Ward,   Thomas        Deed-1674    107 

Burges,  Thomas        Land   Recorded-1673    26 

Burton,  Stephen  to  Brayton,  Francis        Deed-1671 52 

Busecot,  Peter  to  Warner,  John        Deed  Confirmed-1681/2 176 

Button,  Henry  to  Easton,  Nicholas        Indenture-1616 8 

Butts,  Thomas  from  Earle,  Ralph        Deed-1668 120 

Cachanaquoant  to  Arnold,  Benedict        Deed-1658 67 

Cachanaquant  to  Houldon,    Randall    &    Gorton,    Samuel        Deed- 

1659 117 

Cadman,  Richard  to  Fish,  Robert        Deed-1688    219 

Cadman,  Richard  to  Lawton,    Isaac        Deed-1688    219 

Cagananaquoant    to    Coddington,    William    &    Arnold,    Benedict 

Deed-1657 67 

Cahoone,  William  to   Hagbourne,   Samuel        Deed-1670 161 

Calhoune,  William  from  Terry,  Thomas        Deed-1662/3 161 

Calverly,  Edmund  to  Easton,  Peter        Receipt-1672 18 

Canonicus  &  Miantunomu  to  Williams,  Roger        Deed-1637 162 

Canonicus  to   Sanford,   Peleg        Deed-1675 80 

Card,  Joseph        Land  Recorded-1674   42 

Card,  Joseph  from  Case,  James        Deed-1688-9 225 

Carder,  Richard  to   Gorton,    Samuel        Deed-1650 137 

Carder,  Richard  et  al.   from  Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Carpenter,  Abijah  from  Carpenter,  Joseph        Deed-1673 47 

Carpenter,  Joseph  to  Arnold,  Stephen        Deed-1674   50 

Carpenter,  Joseph  to  Carpenter,  Abijah        Deed-1673  47 

Carpenter,  William  from  Greene,  John,  Jr.        Deed-1658 52 

Carr,  Caleb  &  Barker,   James    from    Awawsunks    et    al.        Deed- 
1674  49, 53 


VI 

Carr,  Caleb  &  Cranston,  John  to  Arnold,  Benedict        Deed- 1659..  200 

Carr,  Caleb,  from  Cranston,  John        Deed-1675 79 

Carr,  Caleb  to   Heffernan,   Susanah.        Settlement-1680-81 1S9 

Carr,  Caleb  to   Paine,  Thomas        Deed-1688 ^  217 

Carr,  Caleb  et  al.  from  Quisaquance        Deed-1&59 68 

Carr,  Caleb  from  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1675 84 

Carr,  Esek  &  Susannah  to  Carr,  Robert        Deed- 1687 222 

Carr,  Robert  from  Carr,  Esek    &  Susannah        Deed-1687 222 

Carr,  Robert  to  Davis,  Samuel        Deed-1676 98 

Carr,  Susanna  &  Esek  to  Carr,  Robert        Deed-1687 222 

Case,  James  to  Card,  Joseph        Deed-1688-9    225 

Case,  Joseph  from  Bull,  Ezekiel        Deed-1693 231 

Chamberlin,  Henry  to  Hudlestone,  Valentine        Deed-1679-80 131 

Champlin,  Jeffery  to  Clarke,  Walter        Deed-1669 92 

Champlin,  John  to  Salmerdore,  Negro        Grant  of  Freedom 47 

ChampHn,  John  to   Sanford,   Peleg        Deed-1675 82 

Chandler,  Edmond  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657...  145 

Chandler,  Samuel  to  Earle,  William        Deed-1660  198 

Chandler,  Samuel  to  Earle,   William   &   Wilcox,   Daniel        Deed- 

1662 198 

Chapman,  Ralph  to  Allen,  Christopher        Deed-1693 239 

Chapman,  Ralph  from  Hart,  John        Deed-1688 226 

Chapman,  Ralph  to  Slocom,  Giles        Deed-1693-4 240 

Christophers,  Jeffrey  &  John        Ship  Protest-1689 224 

Christophers,  John  &   Jeffery        Ship    Protest-1689 224 

Clarke,  Carew  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1679 127 

Clarke  Hannah  from  Wilbur,  Samuel        Deed-1666 44 

Clarke,  John  to  Smith,  Richard        Deed-1674  44 

Clarke,  John  from  Terry,  Thomas        Deed-1663 162 

Clarke,  John  to  Tew,  Richard        Deed-1650 180 

Clarke,  Latham  from    Wilbur,  Samuel        Deed-1671 45 

Clarke,  Thomas        Will-1674 56 

Clarke,  Capt.  Thomas  to  Albro,  John  &  Lawton,  George        Deed- 

1677    109 

Clarke,  Walter        Land   Recorded-1665    93 

Clarke,  Walter  to  Brenton,  William        Deed-1657   70 

Clarke,  Walter  from  Champlin,  Jeffery        Deed-1669 92 

Clarke,  Walter  to  Coggeshall,  John        Deed-1674 87 

Clarke,  Walter  &  Vaughan,  Mrs.  Frances        Agreement-1656 43 

Clarke,  Weston  &  Greene,  John  from  Withington,  Peleg        Power 

of  Attorney-1686 207 

Clarke,  Weston  to  King,  Daniel        Deed-1687 221' 

Clarke,  William        Appraisal  of   Land-1679 129 

Clarke,  William        Land  Recorded-1679 129 


VII 

Clarke,  William  from  Brenton,  William  et  al.        Deed-1674 Ill 

Clarke,  William  to  Lay,  Edward        Deed-1679   130 

Clarke,  William  from   Paine,  John        Deed-1677 128 

Clarke,  William  to  Pearce,  John        Deed-1675 113 

Clarke,  William  from  Tew,  Henry        Marriage  Indenture-1633 9 

Cobb,  Gersham  to  Lawton,  Thomas     Deed-1668 32 

Cobb,  John  to  Earle,  William        Deed'-1662 198 

Coddington,  Nathaniel  to  Edwards,  William        Deed-1694  237 

Coddington,  Nathaniel  to  Mew,  Noel        Deed-1686  190 

Coddington,  Nathaniel  from  Winslow,  Elizabeth        Deed-1694 244 

Coddington,  William        Deposition-1652 59 

Coddington,  William  &    Arnold,    Benedict    from    Cagananaquoant 

Deed-1657 67 

Coddington,  William  et  al.  from  Kaskottape        Deed-1659 68 

Coddington,  William  &  Coggeshall,  John        Agreement-1668 88 

Coddington,  William  to  Greenman,  David  &  Edward        Deed-1642  104 

Coddington,  William  et  ux.  to  Easton,  Nicholas        Deed-1672 19 

Coddington,  William  et  al.  from  Quisaquance        Deed-1659 68 

Cogamaquoant  to  Knight,  Richard  &  Halls,  Henry        Deed-1664..       6 

Coggeshall,  John        Land  Recorded-1665 89 

Coggeshall,  John  &  Brinley,  William        Orders  of  Council-1677. .  104 

Coggeshall,  John  from  Clarke,  Walter        Deed-1674 87 

Coggeshall,  John  &  Coddington,  William        Agreement-1668 88 

Coggeshall,  John  from  Coggeshall,  Elizabeth  Baulston        Divorce- 

1654 89 

Coggeshall,  Elizabeth  Baulston  from  Coggeshall,  John        Divorce- 

1654 89 

Coggeshall,  John  &  William  to  Manchester,  John        Deed-1678...  130 

Coggeshall,  Joshua  to  Cunagrave,  Walter        Deed-1651 185 

Coggeshall,  Joshua  &  Vaughan,  John        Agreement-1671 213 

Coggeshall,  William    to   Goulding,   Roger        Deed-1681 153 

Coggeshall,  William  &^John  to  Manchester,  John        Deed-1678...  130 

Coggeshall,  William  to  Pearce,  John        Deed-1681 158 

Coles,  Daniel  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Coles,  Maher  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Collins,  Lieutenant  Elizur  to  Green,  Thomas        Indenture-1664 102 

Colson,  Nathaniel  &  Cooke,  Stephen        Testimony-1678 114 

Colson,  Nathaniel        Survey-1678 114 

Congdon,  Benjamin  to   Sheldon,  John        Deed-1683 230 

Cooke,  John  from  Browne,  Jeremiah  &  Mary        Deed-1688 211 

Cooke,  John  from  Burge,  Thomas         Deed-1671  30 

Cooke,  John  to  Gibbs,  Robert        Deed-1673 30 

Cooke,  John  from  Gibbs,  Robert        Deed  Returned-1674 30 

Cooke,  John  from  Manchester,  William        Deed-1680   138 


VIII 

Cooke,  John  from  Manchester,  William        Deed-1680  139 

Cooke,  John  from     Sisson,  George        Deed-1683 169 

Cooke,  John  to   Ward,   Thomas        Deed-1680 134 

Cooke,  Stephen  &  Colson,  Nathaniel        Testimony-1678 114 

Cornell,  Richard  to  Wodell,  Gersham        Receipt-1672 20 

Cornell,  Stephen  &  Thomas  to  Sisson,  George        Deed-1691 233 

Cornell,  Thomas        Land  Recorded-1675  84 

Cornell,  Thomas  &  Stephen  to  Sisson,  George        Deed-1691 233 

Correy,  William  from  Earle,  William        Deed-166i9 155 

Correy,  Capt.  William  from  Manchester,  William        Deed-1681...  156 

Costin,  William         Will-1679 159 

Council,  Orders  of  to  Coggeshall,  John  &  Brinley,  William        1677  104 

Crandall,  Elizabeth  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Crandall,  Heber  &  Jeremiah  from  Crandall,  John        Deed-1678 115 

Crandall,  Jeremiah  &  Heber  from  Crandall,  John        Deed-1678..  115 

Crandall,  John,  Senr.  to  Crandall,  John,  Junr.        Assignment-1670  69 

Crandall,  John  to  Crandell,  Jeremiah  &  Heber        Deed-1678 115 

Crandall,  John   Junr.    from   Crandall,   John    Senr.        Assignment- 
1670 69 

Crandall,  John  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Crandall,  John  from  Hall,  Henry        Deed-1693 229 

Cranston,  Capt.  John        Ratification  of  deed-1673 30 

Cranston,  John        Land  Recorded-1674 42 

Cranston,  John  to  Carr,  Caleb        Deed-1675 79 

Cranston,  John  &  Carr,  Caleb  to  Arnold,  Benedict        Deed-1659..  200 

Cranston,  John  from  Gould,  Thomas        Deed-1673 29 

Cranston,  John  from    Gould,    Thomas        Deed-1674 41 

Crow,  William  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Deed-1668 33 

Cudworth,  James  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657  ....  145 

Cunagrave,  Walter  from  Coggeshall,  Joshua        Deed-1651 185 

Cunagrave,  Walter  to  Green,  John        Deed-1651 185 

Damon,  John  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Davis,  Aaron  to  Sanf ord,  Peleg        Deed-167S-73 73 

Davis,  Samuel  from  Carr,  Robert        Deed-1676 98 

Deane,  Thomas  to  Sisson,  George        Deed-1683 171 

Delano,  Philip  to  Earle,  William        Deed-1660 198 

Derin,  Samuel  to  Rathbone,  John        Deed-1671 11 

Dering,  Mary  to  Sands,  James        Deed-1671 12 

Devell,  Joseph  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1679 130 

Devell,  Joseph   from  Wilcox.  Daniel        Deed-1672 133 

Dodge,  Tristram  to  George,  Peter        Deed-1666 15 

Dunham,  John  to  Brigs,  John        Deed-1662 176 


IX 

Dunham,  Samuel  to  Almy,  John        Deed-1668 36 

Durfee,  Thomas  from  Brewster,    Wrastlin        Deed-1678    116 

Durfee,  Thomas  from   Manchester,  William        Deed-1681 143 

Durfee,  Thomas  from  Talman,  Peter        Deed-1683 169 

Dyre,  Charles  from  Dyre,  Samuel        Deed-1687 206 

Dyre,  Henry  from  Dyre,  William        Deed-1670 24 

Dyre,  Henry  &  Samuel  to  Dyre,  William        Indenture-1670 232 

Dyre,  Samuel  to  Dyre,  Charles        Deed-1687 206 

Dyre,  Samuel  &  Henry  to  Dyre,  William        Indenture-1670 232 

Dyre,  William  Senr.  to  Dyre,  William  Junr.        Deed-1670 179 

Dyre,  William  to  Dyre,  Henry        Deed-1670 24 

Dyre,  William  from  Dyre,  Samuel  &  Henry        Indenture-1670...  232 

Dyre,  William  Junr.  from  Dyre,  William  Senr.        Deed-1670 179 

Earle,  Ralph  to  Butts,  Thomas        Deed-1668 120 

Earle,  William  from  Chandler,  Samuel        Deed-1660  198 

Earle,  William  from  Cobb,  John        Deed-1662   198 

Earle,  William  to   Correy,  William        Deed-1669 155 

Earle,  William  from  Delano,  Phillip        Deed-1660  198 

Earle,  William  from  Sands,  James        Deed-        199 

Earle,  William  &  Wilcox,  Daniel  from  Chandler,  Samuel        Deed- 

1666 198 

Easton,  John  to  Brinley,  Francis        ReceTpt-1687 219 

Easton,  John  to  Perry,  Michael        Receipt-1687-8    218 

Easton,  Nicholas        Will-1676 120 

Easton,  Nicholas  to  Barker,  James        Deed-1674 79 

Easton,  Nicholas  from  Button,    Henry        Indenture-1616 8 

Easton,  Nicholas,    from  Coddington,  William  et  ux.        Deed-1672     19 

Easton,  Nicholas  to  Greenman,^David  &  Edward        Deed-1648 97 

Easton,  Nicholas  from  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1662 15 

Easton,  Peter  from  Calverly,  Edmund        Receipt-1672 18 

Easton,  Peter  &  Stevens,  Henry        Agreement-1652 76 

Edwards,  William  to  Ayres,  Robert        Deed-1694 238 

Edwards,  William  from  Coddington,  Nathaniel        Deed-1694 237 

Edwards,  William  from  Evers,  Robert        Deed-1693 227 

Eliott,  Asaph  from  Gerrish.  William        Deed-1682 163 

Evers,  Robert  to  Edwards,  William        Deed-1692 227 

Fish,  Preserved  from  Fish,  Thomas        Deed-1684 211 

Fish,  Robert  from  Browning,  William        Deed-1687-8 212 

Fish,  Robert  from  Cadman,  Richard        Deed-16S8 219 

Fish,  Thomas  to  Fish,  Preserved        Deed-1684 211 

Fisher,  Edward  to  Briggs,   Hannah        Deed-1677 157 

Foster,  Timothy  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 


X 

Freeborne,  Gideon        Land   Recorded-1639    58 

Freeborne,  Gideon  from  Hazard,  Robert        Deed-1671 14 

Freeborne,  Gideon  from  Warner,  John        Deed-1683 166 

Freeborne,  William        Land  Recorded   58 

Fry,  Thomas  Senr.  to  Fry,  Thomas  Junr.        Deed-1688-9 242 

Fry,  Thomas  Junr,  from  Fry,  Thomas  Senr.        Deed-1688-9 242 

Fry,  Thomas  from  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1672 108 

Fry,  Thomas  from  Wood,  John        Deed-1693-4 241 

Gardiner,  George  to  Gardiner,  Nicholas        Deed-1673 99 

Gardiner,  Nicholas  from  Gardiner,  George        Deed-1673 99 

Gardiner,  Nicholas  from    Porter,   John        Deed-1671 99 

Gardiner,  Nicholas  from    Porter,   John        Deed-1673 99 

Gardiner,  William  from  Porter,    John        Deed-1671 95 

Gardner,  George  &  Stanton,  Robert  from  Wanuemaching        Deed- 

1663 216 

Gardner,  Henry  et  al.  to  Heflfernan,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Gardner,  Henry  et  al.  to  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1693 242 

Gardner,  Henry  &  Watson,  John  to  Allen,  Joseph        Deed-1692  236 

George,  Mary  from  George,  Peter        Deed-1679 128 

George,  Peter  from   Dodge,    Tristram        Deed-1666 15 

George,  Peter  to   George,   Mary        Deed-1679 128 

George,  Peter  to  George,   Samuel        Deed-1678 129 

George,  Peter  to  Williams,  John        Deed-1668 15 

George,  Samuel   from  George,   Peter        Deed-1678 129 

Gerrish,  William    to   Eliott,   Asaph        Deed-1682 163 

Gibbs,  Robert  from  Cooke,  John        Deed-1673 30 

Gibbs,  Robert  to  Cooke,  John        Deed  Returned-1674 m 

Gibbs,  Robert  from  Springer,  Lawrance        Deed-1679 126 

Ginings,  Thomas  from    Brenton,    William        Deed-1659 48 

Ginings,  Thomas  Sr.  to  Ginings,  Thomas,  Jr.        Deed-1674 48 

Ginings,  Thomas  Jr.  from  Ginings,  Thomas  Sr.        Deed-1674 48 

Gonzales,  Lawrence  to  Hall,  Will  Assignment  of  Deed^l672...  17 
Gonzales,  Lawrence   from  Kent,  Thomas        Power  of  Attorney- 

1672  " 17 

Goose,  John        Protest-1677    100 

Gorton,  John  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 119 

Gorton,  Samuel  from    Carder,   Richard        Deed-1650 137 

Gorton,  Samuel  to  Coles,  Daniel  et  al.        Deed-1677 134 

Gorton,  Samuel  to  Gorton,  John        Deed-1677 119 

Gorton,  Samuel  &  Houldon,  Randall  from  Cachanaquant        Deed- 

1695 117 

Gorton,  Samuel  et  al.  from  Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Gould,  Daniel  to   Surkett,  John        Deed-1687 204 


XI 

Gould,  Elizabeth        Testimony-1684 176 

Gould,  Thomas  from  Aquinaumpau        Deed-1660 29 

Gould,  Thomas     to    Cranston,   John        Deed-1673 29 

Gould,  Thomas   from  Koshkotap        Deed-1657 29 

Gould,  Thomas  to   Brenton,   William        Deed-1675 83 

Gould,  Thomas  to  Cranston,  John        Deed-1674 41 

Gould,  Thomas  from   Surkett,  John        Deed-1696 245 

Goulding,  Penelope    &    Roger    from    Arnold,    Benedict        Deed- 

1676 105 

Goulding,  Roger  from  Coggeshall,  William        Deed-1681 153 

Goulding,  Roger   ,&    Penelope    from    Arnold,    Benedict        Deed- 

1676 105 

Green,  James  &  Thomas  from  Green,  John  Sr.        Deed-1675 102 

Green,  John  from  Cunagrave,  Walter        Deed- 1651 185 

Green,  John  Sr.  to  Green,  James  &  Thomas        Deed-1675 102 

Green,  John  to   Greene,   James        Deed-1681-2 173 

Green,  John  from  Greenman,  Edward  &  David        Deed-1647 184 

Green,  Thomas  from     Collins,     Lieutenant     Elizur        Indenture- 

1664 102 

Green,  Thomas  &  James  from  Green,  John  Senr.        Deed-1675 102 

Green,  Thomas  from  Todd,  Walter        Deed-1673-4 101 

Greene,  James   from   Green,  John        Deed-1681-2 173 

Greene,  John  Jr.  to  Carpenter,  William        Deed-1656 52 

Greene,  John  &  Clarke,  Weston  from  Withington,  Peleg        Power 

of  Attorney-1686 207 

Greene,  John  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Deed-1654 46 

Greene,  John  et  al.  from  Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Greene,  John  to  Sisson,  George        Deed- 1693 234 

Greenell,  Matthew  to  Manchester,  Thomas        Deed-1681 153 

Greenell,  Matthew  from  Manchester,  William        Deed-1681 142 

Greenell,  Matthew  from  Tripp,  John        Deed-1651 145 

Greenell,  Mathew  from  Weeden,  Rose        Deed-1673 38 

Greenhill,  Daniel  to  Brightman,  Henry        Deed-1683 220 

Greenhill,  Matthew    &    Manchester,    William    to    Ward,  Thomas 

Deed-1682 167 

Greenman,  David        Land  Recorded-1648   97 

Greenman,  David  &  Edward  from  Coddington,  William        Deed- 
1642  104 

Greenman,  David  &  Edward  from  Easton,  Nicholas        Deed-1648    97 

Greenman,  David  &  Edward  to   Green,  John        Deed-1647 184 

Greenman,  Edward  &  David  from  Coddington,  William        Deed- 
1642  104 

Greenman,  Edward  &  David  from  Easton,  Nicholas        Deed-1'648    97 
Greenman,  Edward  &  David  to  Green,  John        Deed-1647 184 


XII 

Hagbourne,  Samuel   from   Cahoone,   William        Deeci-1670 161 

Hall,  Henry  to  Crandall,  John        Deed-1693    229 

Hall,  Henry  to  Knight,  Jonathan        Deed-1693  230 

Hall,  Henry  to  Ray,  James        Deed-1693   227 

Hall,  Henry  to  Sheldon,  John        Deed-1693    229 

Hall,  Henry  to  Tanner,  William        Deed-1693    228 

Hall,  Margaret  from  Robinson,  Edward        Deed-1684 184 

Hall,  Henry  to  Wells,  Peter        Deed-1693 228 

Hall,  Will  from  iGonzales,  Lawrence        Assignment  of  Deed-1672    17 

Hall,  William  to   Sisson,  Richard        Deed-165& 71 

Hall,  Henry  &  Knight,  Richard  from  Cogamaquoant        Deed-1664      6 

Hanna,  Mary  &  Robert  from  Wilson,  Samuel        Deed-1688 215 

Hanna,  Robert  &  Mary  from  Wilson,  Samuel        Deed-1688 215 

Harris,  Andrew  from  Westcott,  Robert        Deed-1656 152 

Hart,  Freeborn  from  Brenton,  William  et  al.        Deed-1674 237 

Hart,  John  to  Chapman,  Ralph        Deed-1688 226 

Hazard,  Robert  from  Brenton,  William  et  al.        Deed-1671... 12 

Hazard,  Robert  to  Brownell,  George        Deed-1671 13 

Hazard,  Robert  to  Freeborne,  Gideon        Deed-1671 14 

Hazard,  Robert    against  Hazard,  Thomas        Claim-1677 110 

Hazard,  Thomas        Will-1676 110 

Hazard,  Thomas  from  Hazard,  Robert        Claim-1677 110 

Hatch,  Walter  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-16'57 145 

Hajtherly,  Timothy  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657...   145 

Haviland,  William  to  Malins,  Robert        Deed-il675 81 

Heffeman,  Susannah  from  Carr,  Caleb        Settlement-1680-81 139 

Heffernan,  William  from  Sewall,  Samuel  et  al.        Deed-1692 232 

Herbert,  John        Protest-1676 95 

Hicks,  John  to  Sabeere,  Stephen        Deed-1677 100 

Hicks,  Thomas  to   Springer,  Lawrence        Deed-1679 126 

Hicks,  Samuel  to   Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1672 151 

Hicks,  Samuel  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1682    167 

Higgin,  Seaborn        Land  Recorded-1675   85 

Hodges,  Henry  to  Borden,  John        Deed-1680-81 197 

Holloway,  Malachi  to  Borden,  John        Deed-1680 196 

Hollyman,  Ezekiel  &  Holden,  Randall  from  Tacommonan        Deed- 

1654 191 

Holmes,  John  from  Wilson,  Samuel        Deed-1687 214 

Holmes,  John  from  Wilson,  Samuel        Indenture-1687 215 

Holden,  Randall  et  al.  from  Kaskottape        Deed-1659 68 

Holden,  Randall  &  Gorton.  Samuel  from  Cachanaquant        Deed- 

1695 117 

Holden,  Randall  &  Hollyman,  Ezekiel  from  Tacommonan        Deed- 

1654       191 


XIII 

Holden,  Randall  et  al.   from   Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Holden,  Randall  to  Paine,  Anthony        Deed-1645 38 

Holden,  Capt.  Randall  &  Williams,  Roger        Testimony-1664 178 

Hoskins,  John  to  Borden,  John        Deed-1680 196 

House,  Samuel  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-ieST 145 

Howland,  Henry  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Hubbard,  Samuel        Land  Recorded-ltj72   14 

Hudlestone,  Valentine  from  Allen,  Matthew        Deed-1679 132 

Hudlestone,  Valentine  from  Chamberlin,  Henry        Deed-1679-80. .  131 

Hudlestone,  Valentine  from  Manchester,  John        Deed-1679 131 

Hull,  John  et  al.  to   Clarke,  William        Deed-1674 Ill 

Hull,  John  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn        Deed-1674 237 

Hull,  John  et  al.  to  Hazard,  Robert        Deed-1671 l2 

Hull,  John  from  Smith,  Richard        Deed-1687 217 

Hull,  Joseph  from  Allen,  Joseph        Deed-1693 235 

Hutchinson,  Elisha  &  Hannah  to  Brenton,  William        Deed-1670. .  135 
Hutchinson,  Hannah  &  Elisha  to  Brenton,  William        Deed-1670..  135 

Inman,  Edward        Land   Recorded-1675    80 

Inman,  Edward  to  Blackmore,  James  &  Buckman,  John        Deed- 

1673 21 

Inman,  Edward  to  Buckland,  Banjamin  et  al.        Deed-1672.  .a&b  22 

Inman,  Edward  from  Manion,  William        Deed-1669 20 

Inman,  Edward  &  Mowry,  John  to  Blackmore,  James  &  Buckman, 

John        Deed-1672 21,  22 

Inman  Edward  &  Mowry,  John         Land  Recorded*-1672 24 

Inman,  Edward  &  Mowry,  John  from  IMannion,  William        Deed- 

1666 20 

Inman,  Edward  from    Philip.    King    of    the    Wampanoags    et    al. 

Deed-1669 21 

Jackson,  Samuel  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

JeflFery,  William        Will-1674 66 

Jeffery,  William  with    Knight,    Richard        Agreement-1650 5 

JeflFery,  William  to  Turner,  Lawrence        Deed-1653-4 28 

Jennings  (See  Ginings). 

Jones,  Mary  from  Taylor,  Rebecca  &  Nelson,  John        Deed-1685..   193 

Jones,  Philip    to    Taylor,    Rebecca    &    Nelson.    John        Mortgage- 

1683   192 

Jourdaine,  John  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Deed-1668 36 

Kashotap  to  Coddington,  William  et  al.        Deed-1659 68 

Kelly,  Michael  from-  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1673 108 

Kendrick,  George  from  Knight,  Richard        Deed-1656 27 

Kendrick,  George  to    Turner,    Lawrence        Deed-1663 27 


XIV 

Kent,  Thomas  to  Gonzales,  Lawrence         Power  of  Attorney-1672. .     17 
Kent,  Thomas  from  Portsmouth,  town  of        Ratification  of  hold- 

ings-1672  .  .  .   17 

King,  Daniel  from  Qarke,  Weston        Deed-1687 221 

Knight,  Jonathan  from  Hall,  Henry        Deed-1693 230 

Knight,  Richard        Entail-1648    6 

Knight,  Richard  &  Hall,  Henry  from  Cogamaquoant        Deed-1664      6 

Knight,  Richard  with    Jefifery,    William        Agreement-1650 5 

Knight,  Richard  to   Kendrick,   George        Deed-1656 27 

Knight,  Richard  from  Rogers,  James        Deed-1648 5 

Knight,  Richard  to    Turner,    Lawrence        Deed-1658 26 

Koshkotap  to  Gould,  Thomas        Deed-1657 29 

Lake,  David  to  Bailey,  John        Deed-16&7-8 216 

1673   81 

Lamb,  Caleb  &  Williams,  Stephen  from  Wise,  Joseph,  Sr.        Deed- 

Lawton,  Daniel  from  Lawton,  Thomas        Power  of  Attorney-1674     57 

Lawton,  George  &    Albro,    John     from     Clarke,     Capt.     Thomas 

Deed-1677 109 

Lawton,  George,  from  Bowne,  Andrew        Deed-1687 206 

Lawton,  George  to  Lawton,  Robert        Deed-1688  214 

Lawton,  George  to  Lawton,   Robert        Assignment-1688    223 

Lawton,  Isaac    from   Cadman,   Richard        Deed-1688 219 

Lawton,  Robert  from  Lawton,    George        Deed-1688    214 

Lawton,  Robert  from  Lawton,  George        Assignment-1688    223 

Lawton,  Robert  from  Wodell,  William        Deed-1688-9    224 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Almy,  John        Assignment  of  deed-1671..     34 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Almy,  John        Deed-1671 35 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Almy,  John        Deed-1671 36 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Almy,  John        Deed-1671 37 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Almy,  John        Deed-1671 38 

Lawton,  Thomas  &  Almy,  John        Agreement-1673 46 

Lawton,  Thomas  from   Bradford,   Alice        Deed-1668 33 

Lawton,  Thomas  to  Briggs,  John        Deed-1668 34 

Lawton,  Thomas     from  Cobb,  Gersham        Deed-1668    32 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Crow,  William        Deed-1668  33 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Greene,  John        Deed-1654   46 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Jourdaine,   John        Deed-1668    36 

Lawton,  Thomas  to  Lawton,  Daniel        Power  of  Attorney-1674..     57 

Lawton,  Thomas  from  Nelson,  WilHam        Deed-1668 32 

Lay,  Edward  from  Clarke,  William        Deed-1679 130 

Layton,  John  to  Tew,  Richard        Deed-1643 65 

Leonard,  James  to  Sheffield,  Icabod        Deed-1681 182 

Lloyd,  James  from  Sylvester,  Nathaniel        Deed-1678 172 


XV 

Long,  Philip        Land   Bounded-1680-81    165 

Long,  Philip  &  Vaughan,  Daniel        Agreement-1682 164 

Loveday,  Thomas  to  Barker,  William        Power  of  Attorney-1671. .  19 

Lynch,  Sir  Thomas  to  Paine,  Capt.  Thomas        Order-1682 170 

Makepeace,  William  to  Ward,  Thoma"?        Deed-1680 149 

Makepeace,  William  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1681 150 

Malins,  Robert  from  Haviland,  William        Deed-1675 81 

Mamamutt  to  Alderman        Deed-1683 175 

Mamamutt  to  Wilcox,  Daniel        Deed-1683    174 

Man,  James  to  Smith,  Philip        Deed-1688 223 

Manchester,  John  from  Coggeshall,  John  &  William        Deed-1678  130 

Manchester,  John   to   Hudlestone,   Valentine        Deed-1679 131 

Manchester,  Thomas  to  Borden,  Matthew        Deed-1682 170 

Manchester,  Thomas  from  Browning,  William        Deed-1684-5 179 

Manchester,  Thomas  from  Grenell,   Matthew        Deed-1681 153 

Manchester,  Thomas    to  Pearce,   John        Deed-1681 144 

Manchester,  Thomas  to    Pearce,   John        Deed-1681 157 

Manchester,  Thomas  to  Sisson,  Richard        Deed-1658 71 

Manchester,  William  to  Cooke,  John        Deed-1680 138 

Manchester,  William  to  Cooke,  John        Deed-1680 139 

Manchester,  William  to   Correy,  Capt.  William        Deed-1681 156 

Manchester,  William  to  Durfee,  Thomas        Deed-1681 143 

Manchester,  William    &    Greenhill,    Matthew    to    Ward,    Thomas 

Deed-1682       167 

Manchester,  William  to  Grenell,  Matthew        Deed-1681 142 

Manchester,  William  to    Pearce,   John        Deed-1681 141 

Manion,  William  to  Inman,  Edward        Deed-1669 20 

Manion,  William  to  Inman,  Edward  &  Mowry,  John        Deed-1666  :20 

Maxson,  John  from  Utley.  Samuel        Deed-1687-8 221 

^^ayhew,  Matthew  to  Sanford,  Peleg  et  al.        Deed-1674 108 

Mays,  Sarah  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Mays,  William  from   Brinley,  Frances        Deed-1673-4 236 

Mays,  William  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Mew,  Noel  from  Coddington,  Nathaniel        Deed-1686 190 

Miantonomi  &  Cannonicus    to    Williams,    Roger        Deed^l637 162 

Miantonomi  to  Holden.  Randall  et  al.        Deed-1642 113 

Mirick,  William    to    Ward,   Thomas        Deed-1673 106 

Moore,  Richard  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Morton,  Nathaniel  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Morton,  Thomas  to  Almy,  John        Deed-1668 34 

Mosher,  Hugh  to  Brightman,  Henry        Deed-1689 225 

Mott.  Jacob,  from   Wilcox,   Daniel        Deed-1682 194 


XVI 

Mott,  Jacob,  from  Wodell,  William        Deed-1684 195 

Mowry,  Joseph  from  Wilcox,  Daniel        Deed-1682 160 

Mowry,  John  &  Inman,  Edward  to  Blackmore,  James  &  Buckman, 

John        Deed-1672  21,  22 

Mowry,  John  &  Inman,   Edward        Land   Recorded-1672 24 

Mowry,  John  &  Inman,  Edward  from  Minnion,  William        Deed- 

1666   20 

Mumford,  Stephen  &  Ayres,  Robert  from  Phips,  Mary        Receipt- 

1694 245 

Mumford,  Stephen  &  Ayres,      Robert     to     Phips,     Sir     William 

Deed-1687 213 

Mumford,  Stephen  &  Ayres,  Robert  from  Walley,  John        Deed- 
1687  208 

Mumford,  Thomas  to  Battey,    Samson        Deed-1693    239 

Mumford,  Thomas  et  al.  to  Clarke,  William        Deed-1674 Ill 

Mumford,  Thomas  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn        Deed-1674 237 

Mumford,  Thomas  et  al.  to  Hazard,  Robert        Deed-1671 12 

Mumford,  Thomas  et  al.  to  Heffernan,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Mumford,  Thomas  to   Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1667 72 

Mumford,  Thomas  et  al.  to  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1693 242 

Mumford,  Thomas  to  Thomas,  John        Deed-1693 239 

Nash,  Samuel  to  Bartlett,  Benjamin        Deed-1666 146 

Nash,  Samuel  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Naw-naw-nanten-new  to  Arnold,   Stephen        Deed-1674 78 

Neales,  Henry,  from  Allis,  John        Deed-1685 192 

Nelson,  John  &  Taylor,  Rebecca  from  Jones,  Philip        Mortgage- 

1683 192 

Nelson,  John  &  Taylor,  Rebecca  to  Jones,  Mary        Deed-1685 193 

Nelson,  William  to  Lawton,  Thomas        Deed-1668 32 

Newbery,  Walter  from  Richardson,  William        Deed-1674 94 

Newport,  town  of  versus    Arnold,    Benedict        1671 85 

Newport,  town  of  from  Arnold,   Benedict        Deed-1673 86 

Newport,  town  of  from  Arnold,  Benedict        Deed-1673 199 

Newport,  town  of  to  Barker,  James        Deed-1662 16 

Newport,  town  of  to  Easton,  Nicholas        Deed-1662 15 

Newport,  town  of  to    Fry,    Thomas        Deed-1672 108 

Newport,  town  of        Highways-1654  .  .  .^ 54 

Newport,  town  of  to   Kelly,   Michael        Deed-1673 1C8 

Newport,  town  of  to    Sanford,   John        Deed-1674 74 

Newport,  town  of  to  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1674 75 

Nicholson,  Joseph   to   Nicholson,    Samuel        Power   of   Attorney- 

1672  . _. 18 


XVII 

Nicholson,  Samuel  from  Nicholson,  Joseph        Power  of  Attorney- 

1672 18 

Niles,  Nathaniel  to  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1692 243 

Ousamequen  et  al.  to  Chandler,  Edmond  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Paine,  Anthony  from  Holden,  Randall        Deed-1645 38 

Paine,  John  to  Appleton,  Samuel        Deed-1663 110 

Paine,  John  to  Clarke,  William        Deed-1677 128 

Paine,  John  to  Taynter,  Joseph        Trust  Deed-1669 39 

Paine,  Thomas   from   Carr,  Caleb        Deed-1688 217 

Paine,  Capt.  Thomas  from  Lynch,  Sir  Thomas        Order-1682 170 

Painter,  Thomas  to  Tew,  Richard        Deed-1663-4 ,66 

Palmer,  Henry  to  Sabeere,  Stephen        Award-1672 25 

Park,  William  from  Wise,  Joseph        Deed-1671 40 

Parker,  John        Land   Recorded-1676    96 

Parker,  Richard   from   Williams,   Roger        Deed-1678 113 

Parker,  John  to  Sisson,  George        Deed-1688 222 

Parker,  Richard  from  Throckmorton,  John        Deed-1654 163 

Partridge,  Ralph  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Pawtuxet,  Purchasers  of  to  Westcott,  Stukely        Deed-1648 151 

Peabody,  William  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Pearce,  John  from  Clarke,  William        Deed-1675 112 

Pearce,  John  from  Coggeshall,  William        Deed-1681 158 

Pearce,  John  from    Manchester,    Thomas        Deed-1681 144 

Pearce,  John  from  Manchester,  Thomas        Deed-1681 157 

Pearce,  John  from   Manchester,   William        Deed-1681 141 

Perry,  Michael  from  Easton,  John        Receipt-1687-8 218 

Phillip,  King  of  the  Wampanoags  et  al.  to  Inman,  Edward      Deed- 
1669  21 

Phips,  Mary  to  Mumford,  Stephen  &  Ayres,  Robert        Receipt- 

1694 245 

Phips,  Sir    William    from    Mumford,    Stephen    &    Ayres,    Robert 

Deed-1687 213 

Pocoke,  John  to  Browne,  Capt.  John        Deed-1683 171 

Porter,  John  et  al  to  Clarke,  William        Deed-1674 Ill 

Porter,  John  to   Gardiner,   Nicholas        Deed-1671 99 

Porter,  John  to    Gardiner,    Nicholas        Deed-1673 99 

Porter,  John  to  Gardiner,  William        Deed-1671 95 

Porter,  John  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn,        Deed-1674 237 

Porter,  John  et  al.  to  Hazard,  Robert        Deed-1671 12 

Porter,  John  &  Sanford,  John        Testimony-1669 178 

Porter,  John  to   Smith,  Richard        Deed^l671 9 

Portsmouth,  town  of  to  Kent,  Thomas        Ratification  of  Holdings- 

1672   17 


xviir 

Potter,  Robert  et  al.   from  Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Powell,  Ralph  to  Simmons,  John        Deed-1679 147 

Quisaquance  to  Brenton,  William  et  al.        Deed-1659 68 

Rainebrow,  Edward  to  Browne,  William        Deed-167a 91 

Rathbon,  John  from  Alcock,  John  heirs  of        Receipt-1672 238 

Rathbone,  John   from   Bering,    Samuel        Deed-1671 11 

Rathbone,  John  &  Allen,  William  to  Sirkett,  John        Deed-1687..  205 
Rathbone,  John  &  Vose,  Edward   from  Williams,  John        Deed- 
1671  11 

Ray,  James  from  Hall,  Henry       Deed-1693 227 

Read,  John  from  Boomer,  Mathew        Deed-1677 122 

Read,  William   to   Brookes,   Thomas        Deed-1687 200 

Reape.  Joan  to  Rhodes,  Zachariah        Deed-1676-7 109 

Reape,  Sarah   to    Smith,   Leonard        Deed-1674 57 

Reckes,  John  from  Shivereck,  Samuel        Deed-1680 152 

Rhodes,  Zachariah   to    Arnold,    Stephen        Deed-1663 78 

Rhodes,  Zachariah  from  Reape,  Joan        Deed-1676-7 109 

Richard,  John   to   Almy,   John        Deed-1671 37 

Richardson,  William  to  Newbery,  Walter        Deed-1674 94 

Ringe,  Andrew   to   Almy,   John        Deed-1668 35 

Robinson,  Edward   to    Billings,    Samuel        Deed-1658 47 

Robinson,  Edward  Junr.  &  Francis  from  Robinson,  Edward  Senr. 

Deed-1686 200 

Robinson,  Edward  to  Robinson,  Edward  Junr.  &  Francis        Deed- 
1686.  200 

Robinson,  Edward  to  Hall,  Margaret        Deed-1684 184 

Robinson,  Francis  &  Edward  Junr.  from  Robinson,  Edward  Senr. 

Deed-1686.    .    ^    200 

Rodman,  John  from  Alcock,  John        Deed-1687 202 

Rodman,  John  from     Wharton,     Philip     to     Briggs,     Nathaniel 

Deed-1684 204 

Rogers,  James    to    Knight,    Richard        Deed-1648 5 

Rogers,  James    from    Sanford,    John        Deed-1659 90 

Sabeere,  Stephen  from  Hicks,  John        Deed-16i77 100 

Sabeere,  Stephen  from  Smith,  John        Deed-1676 90 

Sabeere,  Stephen  to  Palmer,  Henry        Award-1672 25 

Salmerdore  (Negro)  from  Champlin,  John        Grant  of  Freedom..  47 

Sands,  James  from  Dering,  Mary        Deed-1671   12 

Sands,  James  to  Earle,  William        Deed 199 

Sanford,  John  et   al.   from   Gorton,   Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Sanford,  John  from  Newport,  town  of        Deed-1674 74 

Sanford,  John  &   Porter,  John          Testimony-1669 178 


XIX 

Sanf ord,  John  to  Rogers,  James        Deed-1659 90 

Sanford,  John  to   Sanford,   Peleg        Deed-1674 75 

Sanf  ord,  Mary  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Sanford,  Peleg  from   Brenton,   William        Deed-1670 72 

Sanford,  Peleg  from   Brenton,   William        Deed-1674 74 

Sanford,  Peleg,  from  Brenton,  William        Deed-1679 136 

Sanford,  Peleg    to    Brenton,    William        Deed-1685 186 

Sanford,  Peleg   to    Carr,   Caleb        Deed-1675 84 

Sanford,  Peleg  from  Champlin,  John        Deed-1675 82 

Sanford,  Peleg  from  Cananicus        Deed-1675 80 

Sanford,  Peleg  from   Davis,   Aaron        Deed-1672-73 73 

Sanford,  Peleg  et  al.  to  HeflFernan,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Sanford,  Peleg  et  al.  from  (Mayhew,  Matthew        Deed-1674 108 

Sanford,  Peleg   from   Mumford,   Thomas        Deed-1667 72 

Sanford,  Peleg  from   Newport,  town  of        Deed-1674 75 

Sanford,  Peleg  from  Sanford,  John        Deed-1674 75 

Sanford,  Peleg  et  al.  to  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1693 242 

Sanford,  Peleg  from   Sisson,  Richard        Deed-1660 71 

Sanford,  Peleg  to   Slocom,   Peleg        Deed-1693 231 

Sanford,  Peleg  et  al.  from  Throckmorton,  John        Deed-1687...  209 

Sanford,  Peleg,  from  Waterman,  Thomas        Deed-1672-73 73 

Saunders,  Tobias  &  Turner,  Lawrence        Land  Recorded-1673 28 

Sayles,  John   to    Arnold,    Stephen        Deed-1659 77 

Sewall,  Hannah  et  al.  to  Heflfernan,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Sewall,  Samuel  from  Brenton,  Jahleel  et  al.         Deed-1693 242 

Sewall,  Samuel  et  al.  to  Heffernan,  William        Deed-1692 232 

Sewall,  Samuel  from   Niles,    Nathaniel        Deed-1692 243 

Sheffield,  Icabod   from   Leonard,   James        Deed-1681 182 

Sheldon,  John  from  Congdon,  Benjamin        Deed-1683 230 

Sheldon,  John  from  Hall,  Henry        Deed-1693 229 

Shivereck,  Samuel  to  Reckes,  John        Deed-1680' 152 

Shotton,  Samson  et  al.  from  Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Simmons,  John        Will-1678-9 121 

Simmons,  John  from   Powell,   Ralph        Deed-1679 147 

Simmons,  John  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1679 133 

Simmons,  John  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1680 148 

Sirkett,  John    from   Allen,   William   &   Rathbone,   John        Deed- 
1687 205 

Sirkett,  John   from    Gould,   Daniel        Deed-1687 204 

Sisson,  George        Land    Bounded-1682-3 166 

Sisson,  George  to   Brighton,   Henry        Deed-1681 172 

Sisson,  George   from   Browne,  William        Deed-1681-2 159 

Sisson,  George  to  Cooke,  John        Deed-1683 169 


XX 

Sisson,  George  from  ComeU,  Thomas  &  Stephen        Deed-1691...  233 

Sisson,  George   from   Deane,   Thomas        Deed-1683 171 

Sisson,  George  from  Greene,  John        Deed-1693 234 

Sisson,  George  from  Parker,  John        Deed-168& 222 

Sisson,  George  from  Tripp,  Peleg        Deed-16i77 105 

Sisson,  Richard   from   Hall,  William        Deed-1658 71 

Sisson,  Richard   from   Manchester,   Thomas        Deed-1658 71 

Sisson,  Richard  to  Sanford,  Peleg        Deed-1660 71 

Slocum,  Giles    from    Chapman,    Ralph        Deed-1693-4 240 

Slocum,  Peleg    from    Sanford,    Peleg        Deed-1693 231 

Smith,  Edward  &  Barker,  James        Bounds  changed-1657 48 

Smith,  Elisha  &   Barker,   James        Agreement-1675 92 

Smith,  John  to  Sabeere,  Stephen        Deed-1676 90 

Smith,  Leonard  from  Reape,  Sarah        Deed-1674... 57 

Smith,  Philip  from  Man,  James        Deed-1688 223 

Smith,  Philip  et  al.  from  Mayhew,  Matthew        Deed-1674 108 

Smith,  Richard  from  Atherton,  Jonathan        Deed-1673 31 

Smith,  Richard  to    Briggs,    John        Deed-1672 49 

Smith,  Richard  from  Clarke,  John        Deed-1674 44 

Smith,  Richard  to  Hull,  John        Deed-1687 217 

Smith,  Richard  from  Porter,  John        Deed-1671 9 

Smith,  Richard  to    Terry,    Joseph    &    Bailey,    Richard        Deed- 

1671-2 31 

Smith,  Richard  et  al.  from  Quisaquance        Deed-1659 68 

Southworth,  Constant  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657  146 

Southworth,  Thomas  to   Almy,  John        Deed-1668 34 

Southworth,  Thomas  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657  145 

Springer,  Lawrence  to    Gibbs,    Robert        Deed-1679 126 

Springer,  Lawrence  from   Hicks,   Thomas        Deed-1679 126 

Stafford,  Thomas  to  Warner,  John        Deed-1684-5 181 

StaflFord,  Thomas  from  Warner,  John        Deed-1684-5 181 

Stanton,  Robert  ,&  Gardner,  George  from  Wanuemaching,    Deed- 

1662 216 

Stevens,  Henry  to   Boomer,   Matthew        Deed-1676 96 

Stevens,  Henry  to  Easton,   Peter        Agreement-1652 76 

Stoughton,  William  from  Walley,  John        Mortgage-1685 188 

Stoughton,  William  to  Walley,  John        Deed-1687 207 

Strainge,  John  Senr.  to  Strainge,  John  Junr.        Deed-1687 205 

Strainge,  John  Junr.  to  Strainge,  John  Senr.        Deed-1687 206 

Surkett,  John  to  Gould,  Thomas        Deed-1696 245 

Sweet,  Philip  to   Warner,  John        Deed-1684 177 

Sylvester,  Nathaniel  to  Lloyd,  James        Deed-1678 172 

Tacoramonan  to  Holden,  Randall  &  Hollyman,  Ezekiel        Deed- 

1654 191 


XXI 

Talman,  Peter  to  Durfee,  Thomas        Deed-1683 169 

Talman,  Peter  from  Wamsetta        Deed-1661 188 

Tanner,  William  from  Hall,  Henry        Deed-1693 228 

Tatapanum  et  al.  to  Cudworth,  James  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Taylor,  Rebecca  &  Nelson,  John  to  Jones,  Mary        Deed-1685 193 

Taylor,  Rebecca  &  Nelson,  John  from  Jones,  Philip        Mortgage- 

1683 192 

Taynter,  Joseph  from  Paine,  John        Trust  Deed-1669 39 

Terry,  Joseph  &   Bailey,   Richard   from   Smith,   Richard        Deed- 

1671-2 31 

Terry,  Thomas  to  Acres,  John        Deed-1670 23 

Terry,  Thomas,  to  Administrators  of  John  Hull's  Estate        Deed- 
1683  183 

Terry,  Thomas  to  Calhoane,  William        Deed-1662-3 161 

Terry,  Thomas  to    Clarke,    John        Deed-1663 162 

Terry,  Thomas  from  Williams,  John        Receipt-1677 173 

Tew,  Henry        Land  Recorded-1674 65 

Tew,  Henry  to  Clarke,  William        Marriage  Indenture-1663 9 

Tew,  Richard  from   Anthony,    John        Deed-1642 64 

Tew,  Richard  from    Barker,    James        Deed-1665 66 

Tew,  Richard  to  Billing,  Seaborne        Deed-  84 

Tew,  Richard  from  Clarke,  John        Deed-1650 180 

Tew,  Richard  from  Layton,  John        Deed-1643 65 

Tew,  Richard  from  Painter,  Thomas        Deed-1663  or  4 66 

Tew,  Richard  from  Wood,  Thomas        Deed-1657 ,.     85 

Thomas,  John  from  Mumford,  Thomas        Deed-1693 239 

Throckmorton,  John  to  Brenton,  Jahleel  et  al.        Deed-1687 209 

Throckmorton,  John  to  Parker,  Richard        Deed-1654 163 

Tibbitts,  Henry  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1672 132 

Tift,  John        Will-1674  .   165 

Tisdale,  John  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Todd,  Walter  to  Green,  Thomas        Deed-1673-4 101 

Tripp,  John  to  Grenell,  Matthew        Deed-1651 145 

Tripp,  John  to   Tripp,  Joseph        Deed-1671 16 

Tripp,  John     to   Tripp,    Peleg        Deed-1665 19 

Tripp,  John  from  Weeden,  Rose        Receipt-1650 144 

Tripp,  Joseph   from    Tripp,    John        Deed-1671 16 

Tripp,  Peleg  to  Sisson,  George,        Deed-1677 105 

Tripp,  Peleg     from   Tripp,   John        Deed-1665 19 

Tulie,  John  to  Vaughan,  Daniel        Deed-1682 164 

Turner,  Humphry  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657  145 

Turner,  Lawrence        Land  Recorded-1673 28 

Turner,  Lawrence  from   Barker,  Joseph        Deed-1688 2l2 

Turner,  Lawrence  from  Jeffery,  William        Deed-1653-4 28 


XXII 

Turner,  Lawrence  from  Kendrick,  George        Deed-1663 27 

Turner,  Lawrence  from  Knight,  Richard        Deed-1658 26 

Turner,  Lawrence  &  Saunders,  Tobias        Land.  Recorded-1673. . .     28 

Utley,  Samuel  to  Maxson,  John        Deed-l&87-8 221 

Vaughan,  Daniel  &  Long,   Philip        Agreement-1682 164 

Vaughan,  Daniel  from    Tulie,    John        Deed-1682 164 

Vaughan,  Daniel  from  Vaughan,  George        Deed-1686 201 

Vaughan,  Daniel  from  Vaughan,  John,    Deed-1687 202 

Vaughan,  Mrs.  Francis  &  Clarke,  Walter        Agreement-1656 43 

Vaughan,  George  to  Vaughan,  Daniel        Deed-1686 201 

Vaughan,  John        Land  Recorded-1675 81 

Vaughan,  John   &   Coggeshall,   Joshua        Agreement-1671 213 

Vaughan,  John  to  Vaughan,  Daniel        Deed-1687 202 

Vaughan,  John        Land  Recorded-1673 25 

Vaughan,  John  Sr.  to  Vaughan,  John  Jr.        Deed-1673 26 

Vaughan,  John  Jr.  from  Vaughan,  John  Sr.        Deed-1673 26 

Vaughan,  William        Tesfimony-1671   180 

Vose,  Edward  &  Rathbone,  John   from  Williams,  John        Deed- 

1671  .  .  .   . , 11 

Wadsworth,  Christopher  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed- 

1657   145 

Waite,  Thomas  to   Ward,   Thomas        Deed-1680 149 

Walley,  John  to    Ayres,    Robert    &    Mumford,    Stephen        Deed- 
1687  208 

Walley,  John  to    Brenton,    William        Deed-1685 186 

Walley,  John  from    Brenton,   William        Deed-1685 188 

Walley,  John  to    Mumford,    Stephen    &    Ayres,    Robert        Deed- 
1687   208 

Walley,  John  from  Stoughton,  William        Deed-1687 207 

Walley,  John,  to    Stoughton,   William        Mortgage-1685 188 

Wamsetta  et  al.  to  Cudworth,  James  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Wamsetta  to  Talman,  Peter        Deed-1661 188 

Wanucmaching,  to   Stanton,  Robert  &  Gardner,  George        Deed- 

1662  216 

Ward,  Thomas        Land  Recorded-1674 40 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Almy,  Christopher        Deed-1681 155 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Almy,  Job        Deed-1681 154 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Almy,  John        Deed-1675 107 

Ward,  Thomas  from   Brenton,   William        Deed-1686 189 

Ward,  Thomas  from    Burge,    Thomas        Deed-1671 106 

Ward,  Thomas  from    Burge,    Thomas        Deed-1674 107 

Ward,  Thomas  from    Clarke,    Carew        Deed-1679 127 


XXIII 

Ward,  Thomas  from   Cooke,   John        Deed-1680 134 

Ward,  Thomas  from    Devell,    Joseph        Deed-1679 130 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Hicks,  Samuel        Deed-1672 151 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Hicks,  Samuel        Deed-1682 167 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Makepeace,  William        Deed-1680 149 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Makepeace,  William        Deed-1681 150 

Ward,  Thomas,  from  Manchester,  William  &  Greenehill,  Matthew 

Deed-1682 167 

Ward,  Thomas  et  al.  from  Mayhew,  Matthew        Deed-1674 108 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Mirick,  Thomas        Deed-1673 106 

Ward,  Thomas  from    Simmons,    John        Deed-1679 133 

Ward,  Thomas    from   Simmons,  John        Deed-1680 148 

Ward,  Thomas  from   Tibbitts,   Henry        Deed-1672 132 

Ward,     Thomas  from    Waite,    Thomas        Deed-1680 149 

Ward,  Thomas  from  Wilson,   Samuel        Deed-1682 168 

Warner,  Anna  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Warner,  John  to  Brownell,  Thomas        Deed-1677 144 

Warner,  John  from  Busecot,  Peter        Deed  Confirmed-1681-2. . .     176 

Warner,  John  to    Freeborne,    Gideon        Deed-1682 166 

Warner,  John  et  al.  from  Gorton,  Samuel        Deed-1677 134 

Warner,  John  et  al.   from   Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Warner,  John  from  Stafford,  Thomas        Deed-1684-5 181 

Warner,  John,  to  Stafford,  Thomas        Deed-1684-5 181 

Warner,  John  from    Sweet,    Philip        Deed-1684 177 

Warner,  Jolm  Senr.  to  Warner,  John  Junr.        Deed-1683 158 

Warner,  John  junr.  from  Warner,  John  Senr.        Deed-1683 158 

Waterman,  John  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Waterman,  Richard  et  al  from  Mdantonomi  Deed-1642 113 

Waterman,  Thomas  to   Sanford,   Peleg        Deed-1672-73 73 

Watson,  George  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.        Deed-1657 145 

Watson,  John  &  Gardner,  Henry  to  Allen,  Joseph        Deed-1692..  235 

Weeden,  Rose  to  Greenell,  Matthew        Deed-1673 38 

Weeden,  Rose  to  Tripp,  John        Receipt-1650 144 

Weeden,  William        Land  Recorded-1674  42 

W^ells,  Peter  from  Hall,  Henry        Deed-1693 228 

West,  Matthew        Land  Recorded-1674 40 

West,  Matthew  to   West,    Nathaniel        Deed-1676-7 _.     93 

West,  Nathaniel  to  West,  Matthew        Deed-1676-7 93 

Westcott,  Robert  to  Harris,  Andrew        Deed-1656 152 

Westcott,  Robert  from  Westcott,  Stukely        Deed-1656 152 

Westcott,  Stukely  from    Pawtuxet,   Purchasers   of        Deed-1648..  151 

Westcott,  Stukely  to   Westcott,   Robert        Deed-1656 152 

Weston,  Francis  et  al.  from  Miantonomi        Deed-1642 113 


XXIV 

Wharton,  Philip  from  Alcock,  John        Deed-1686 203 

Wharton,  PhiHp  &  Briggs,  Nathaniel  to  Rodman,  John        Deed- 

1684 204 

Wicks,  John  et  al.  from  Miantonomi        Peed-1642 113 

Wilbur,  John  et  al.  to   Heffeman,   William        Deed-1692 232 

Wilbur,  John  et  al.  ^o  Sewall,  Samuel        Deed-1693 242 

Wilbur,  Samuel  to  Clarke,  Latham        Deed-1671 45 

Wilbur,  Samuel  to  Clarke,  Hannah        Deed-1666 44 

Wilbur,  Samuel  et  al.   to   Clarke,   William        Deed-1674 Ill 

Wilbur,  Samuel  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn        Deed-1674 237 

Wilbur,  Samuel  et  al.  to   Hazard,   Robert        Deed-1671 12 

Wilcox,  Daniel  to   Devell,   Joseph        Deed-167S 133 

Wilcox,  Daniel  &  Earle,  William  from  Chandler,  Daniel        Deed- 

1662 198 

Wilcox,  Daniel  from  Mamanuett        Deed-1683 174 

Wilcox,  Daniel  to  Mott,  Jacob        Deed-1682 194 

Wilcox,  Daniel  to   Mowry,   Joseph        Deed-1682 160 

Williams,  John        Land   Recorded-1679  ,    125 

Williams,  John  from  Acre,  John     Receipt-1672 24 

Williams,  John  from  Alcock,  John        Power  of  Attorney-1668 23 

Williams,  John  from  George,   Peter        Deed-1668 15 

Williams,  John  to  Rathbone,  John  &  Vose,  Edward        Deed-1671     11 

Williams,  John  to  Terry,  Thomas        Receipt-1677 173 

Williams,  Owin   to    Boomer,    Matthew        Indenture-1658 76 

Williams,  Roger  &  Holden,  Capt.  Randall        Testimony-1664 178 

Williams,  Roger  from  Miantonomi  &  Canonicus  Deed-1637. . . .  162 
Williams,  Roger  to   Parker.   Richard        Deed-1678 113 

Williams,  Stephen  &  Lamb,  Caleb  from  Wise,  Joseph  Sr.        Deed- 

1673 81 

Wilson,  Samuel  et  al.  to   Clarke,  William        Deed-1674 Ill 

Wilson,  Samuel  to  Hanna,  Robert  &  Mary        Deed-1688 215 

Wilson,  Samuel  et  al.  to  Hart,  Freeborn        Deed-1674 237 

Wilson,  Samuel  et  al.   to    Hazard,   Robert        Deed-1671 12 

Wilson,  Samuel  to  Holmes,   John        Deed-1687   214 

Wilson,  Samuel  to  Holmes,  John        Indenture-1687  215 

Wilson,  Samuel  to  Ward,  Thomas        Deed-1682 168 

Winslow,  Elizabeth   to   Coddington,   Nathaniel        Deed-1694 244 

Winslow,  Josiah   senr.   et   al.    from   Ousamequen   et   al.        Deed- 

1657       .    145 

Winslow,  Kenelm  et  al.  from  Ousamequen  et  al.  Deed-1657. . . .  145 
Wise,  Joseph   Sr.  to  Lamb,   Caleb  &  Williams   Stephen        Deed- 

1673 81 

Wise,  Joseph  to  Park,  William        Deed-1671 40 

Withington,  PeTeg  to  Oarke,  Weston  &  Greene,  John        Power  of 

Attomey-1686  207 


XXV 

Wodell,  Gersham  from  Cornell,  Richard        Receipt-16T£ 20 

Wodell,  William  to  Lawton,  Robert        Deed-1688-9 224 

Wodell,  William  et  al.   from  Mlantonomi        Deed-1642 113 

Wodell,  William  to  Mott,  Jacob        Deed-1684 195 

Wood,  John  to  Fry,  Thomas        Deed-1693-4 241 

Wood,  Thomas  to  Tew,  Richard        Deed-1657 85 


11, 
0  014  111  170  A 


